

Weekly Knowledge #101	Bad Antogast
14 May 1997	Germany
THE WORLD BELONGS TO YOU

Pleasure or pain is an intense sensation in the 4 to 6  foot body. When we are not caught up in this then we are truly and sincerely able to say, "I belong to you." That is when all the cravings and aversions, desires and doubts fall off -- and in a moment the world belongs to you. All your miseries surround the "I, I, I, . . . ", "I want this, I like that, I don't like this . . ." Just let go. The sun rises and sets, the grass grows, the river flows, the moon shines and I am here forever!

How do you feel if someone praises you?

Answer: "Shy, happy, great, embarrassed . . . "

It does something to you, doesn't it? It doesn't do anything to me! When you praise the moon, the mountains, Lake Lucerne, the Black Forest . . .it doesn't do anything to them. They remain the same.

Just like that I am part of nature. If you enjoy praising me, you may do so. In fact, you have no choice! (Laughter)

You can do with me whatever you like. I am there for you. I am your toy! (Laughter)

NEWS FLASH:

Time literally stood still in Mauritius. In Satish's house where Guruji stayed, all six clocks and everybody's watches mysteriously stopped! But anyway, Guruji moved on to South Africa where he addressed enthusiastic crowds in Pretoria and Johannesburg. Then on to Botswana where Guruji was received by the President at the State House. Later, Guruji visited a Government Hospital and distributed toys and gifts of clothes and food to the ailing children in the pediatric ward. The children loved it! It was Santa Claus but with a black beard and trim tummy! Guruji distributed blankets and food to the aged and disabled of the entire village of Modipane. The people were overwhelmed and greeted Guruji with joy and cheer. Enthusiastic devotees of Botswana's Art of Living are organizing big basic courses and great satsangs. The tired group went on an African Safari and found two leopards, five elephants, a vulture with a broken wing, and two monkeys! The only enthusiastic person was the guide. The giggling gang went on and on. Joy knew no bounds and people were forgetting traffic rules as usual. Hema spooned hot pickle into her tea instead of sugar!

The Ahmedabad chapter organized a blood donation camp and Bangalore organized a mass feeding of the poor. And in Bad Antogast there was a five story birthday cake with marzipan swans.

Instead of "How are you?" Guruji greeted everyone with "How am I?"

Jai Guru Dev

