

Weekly Knowledge #100	Mauritius
07 May 1997	Mauritius
DROP YOUR SELF IMAGE

Kashiap : "How do you make everyone happy?"
Guruji : "Become me."
Rama : "How do we become you?"

What stands between you and me is your self image. Your self image restricts you from being me. Self image whether good or bad causes misery.

When you think good about yourself in a very subtle manner you think bad about others. Then anger, jealousy, hatred - everything follows.

When you think bad about yourself you feel low and again you start getting angry and you hate everyone else. If you think good about yourself you are in trouble and when you think bad about yourself you are in greater trouble.

So drop your self image.

NEWS FLASH:

The Malaysian Advanced Course ended on Sunday and the celebration moved on to Mauritius for the first time. Though preparations for the first visit were on for weeks, all the jigsaw puzzles came to place in the last moment.

Three grand Satsangs were held with packed halls. The Prime Minister and many Cabinet Ministers also came for the blessings from Guruji.

It took 200 top police officers and the Commissioner of Police to capture Guruji at the Police Headquarters. The officers all in uniforms were mesmerized by Guruji. They ended up singing bhajans and came to hug and get the blessings from the Master. Many promised to join the Art of Living Satsang group. One of the police officers remarked to Sharda that Guruji is a "stress breaker" but for Sharda and others Guruji is rather a "heart breaker".

Jai Guru Dev

(Compiled by Satish and Jaya)

Remember that May 13 is Guruj's 41st Birthday! We should start an annual tradition based on last year's birthday surprise which Guruji really liked. At pre-dawn in India (6 to 7 pm U.S. East coast time), we should all join together in silence and meditation to celebrate the incarnation of Grace on this planet. I (Bill Hayden) would like to recommend a Birthday present dear to our Master's heart. We should see how many Dollar-a-Day children that our local communities can support between May 13 and Gurupurnima. We can present this gift to Him at the Gurupurnima celebration. Carla Riechman (our Dollar a Day manager) would like to "keep score" for us and make the presentation to Guruji. Please contact her at 301-588-6422 or laughter@his.com to learn more about this wonderful program and how your community can be a part of His birthday present.

