

Weekly Knowledge #126	Rishikesh
06 Nov 1997	India
Love Is Your Very Existence

Suppose someone shows a lot of love to you, what do you do?

1. Often you do not know how to respond.

2. You feel obliged and bound.

3. Shrink or shy away.

4. Feel foolish and awkward.

5. Try to reciprocate even though it is not genuine.

6. Doubt the love expressed and ones own worthiness.

7. You are afraid of losing respect because love does not allow distance and respect tends to keep distance.

8. Your ego hardens and does not allow you to receive and reciprocate.

9. Anything else. (Fill in the blanks).

The ability to receive genuine love comes with the ability to give love. The more you are centered and, by experience, know that you are love, the more you feel at home with any amount of love being expressed in any manner, for deep inside, you know :

Love is not an emotion !!

It is your very Existence !!!

 

NEWS FLASH

As Diwali celebrations continue in the valley of the Saints, the candlelight Satsangs were electrifying. Advanced course participants broke all barriers of planning and management as 200 people dropped in without prior intimation. Thanks to the volunteers, smiles prevailed on 500 odd.....!! faces. The Advanced Course participants cleaned up tons of garbage from the banks of the Ganga.

Note : Indian teachers and Organizers have resolved to start the following Sri Sri Seva Projects ( S S S P) and all the Satsang groups are invited to join in.

1. Minimum 2% of individual income should be donated towards rural development and hygiene.

2. Contact your nearest supermarkets / stores and encourage them to use paper or cloth bags instead of plastic bags.

Jai Guru Dev

To the USA Satsang Groups:

As you've recently read in the National Newsletter, Saturday, November 22nd is National Seva Day!!! We encourage all of you to organize and participate in Seva projects in your community as a group. This is a wonderful way to appreciate Guru Dev's message of service, bring the Satsang group closer together, as well as promote the Art of Living as a positive force in the community.

There are many projects which you can organize. For example, you can volunteer at a local food bank, shelter, or meal distribution center; you can contribute to a convalescence home as visitors to the patients; you can participate in literacy programs for Adult Education or volunteer at schools; and you can affiliate your Satsang with any number of national and local volunteer organizations (such as Habitat for Humanity 1-800-HABITAT, City Cares of America 1-212-533-4734, the Red Cross, the Names Project, etc.). You can be creative--there is so much Seva to be done! You can even look under "Volunteer" in the Yellow Pages!

Please contact your local teacher for organizational help, and any of us for aid in coming up with ideas, contact information, or anything else we can assist you with!

Jai Guru Dev ,

