

Weekly Knowledge #127	Jaipur, Rajasthan
13 Nov 1997	India
YOUR EXPRESSIONS OF LOVE

You feel a lot of love for someone and they do not take it. What do you do?

1. Get frustrated

2. Turn the love into hatred and wish for revenge

3. Again and again remind them how much you love them and how little they love you

4. Become fussy and cranky

5. Throw tantrums

6. Feel humiliated and try to protect your respect

7. Resolve never to love again

8. Feel hurt and mistreated

9. Try to be aloof and indifferent

...and you have seen that none of these work. They only make the situation worse. What is the way out of this? How do you maintain your lovingness?

1.Have patience and change your expression of love.

2. Be centered and limit your expression of love. Sometimes over-expression of love puts people off.

3. Take it for granted that they love you too and accept their style of expression. For example, a mother with three kids. One child talks, one child does not talk, one child throws tantrums. Mother's love is the same irrespective of their behavior.

4. Genuinely acknowledge their love for you. This will turn your demand into gratefulness and the more you are grateful in life, the more love comes your way.

5. Know that hurt is part of love and take responsibility for it. When you move away from your center, you will definitely get hurt and the nature of worldliness is misery.

NEWS FLASH

The Rishikesh silence course was deafening, as the joy chased the silence into the mountains.

A paper rose kept near Guruji's photo in a home in Delhi blooms in the evenings and closes in the mornings! ( No prizes for guessing how ..... it is happening.)

Sri Sri was welcomed to a packed audience in the country's most prestigious auditorium (Siri Fort, New Delhi)

Sri Sri visit to the Pink City (Jaipur) was celebrated in Rajasthani style (warm, friendly, colorful). His photo was seen on practically every wall of the city and he was crowned with a typical Rajasthani turban.

Jai Guru Dev

