

Weekly Knowledge #138	Santa Monica, California
28 Jan 1998	USA
False Security

False securities do not allow your faith to grow. When you have dropped your securities, then your faith grows. When you buffer your life with securities, you keep the faith away. It is the faith that brings perfection in you. Faith is the greatest security.

If you have all the material securities and not have faith, you will still reel in fear. You have to let go of all possessions in the mind. False security is keeping things where they don't belong. It is an illusion of security because of having a job, a house, friends. Keep the house where it belongs, not in the mind. Keep the money in the bank or in the pocket, not in the mind. Keep friends and family where they belong, not in the mind.

The Divine is your only security.

Faith is realizing that you always get what you need.

Faith is giving the Divine a chance to act.

Your body belongs to the world. Your spirit belongs to the Divine.

NEWS FLASH:

Riding in the car back to Verna's house after satsang, Kumi said, "Lets take the long way home!"

Gurudev said, "I am making the ride home short, but you want to go for a long ride!"

Sri Sri gave a brilliant talk to over 200 people on the World's Great Religions and Their Transformation in the 21st Century at the most prestigious University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA). A number of students started the Basic course that evening. The Santa Monica Advanced Course Satsangs were filled with laughter, brilliant questions and even more brilliant answers. Divya's voice lifted everyone's hearts. One evening Scott invited over 80 people to come for the first time and hear Sri Sri speak. Sri Sri did not say a word. He gave the entire talk in his own version of sign language. It was hilarious. The deaf people present were in tears because of the brilliance Sri Sri showed in his conceptual understanding of sign language.

David said, "Punditji, you travel and work so much - 20 countries in one month - do you ever take a vacation?"

Gurudev said, " In between lifetimes!"

Jai Guru Dev

