

Weekly Knowledge #130	Calicut
03 Dec 1997	India
Intellect

It is the intellect which harbors inhibitions, likes and dislikes, approvals and disapprovals and it is again the intellect which harbors wisdom, which brings forth the intuition.

Q: Is intuition beyond intellect?

Ans: Yes, but it moves through intellect. It's the intellect that lodges wisdom.

Q: Are emotion and intellect contradictory?

Ans: They can be contradictory.

Q: When there is a conflict, which is better?

Ans: There is no better conflict, in conflict. The pure intellect rises beyond conflicts. The pure intellect is not caught up in the emotional turbulence of the mind. Otherwise the intellect often gets coloured by the emotion and becomes impure like muddy water. Then it is unable to reflect the Self. Whereas pure intellect, still and serene, reflects the Self.

Q: Is intellect affected by Karma?

Ans: Karma does not afflict the pure intellect. Liberation is purifying the intellect. The Sanskrit word for intellect is Buddhi and one who is liberated is Buddha.

NEWS FLASH

Sri Avtar Hari, a well known Saint from Haridwar, blessed the Ashram and was with Guruji for three days. The Russians, Polish, Chinese and other international groups, left for God's own country - Kerala, with Guruji! The first stop at the state capital Thiruvananthapuram saw a gathering of six thousand people. From there the entourage rode to Cochin. At Cochin, the open ground by the seaside was fabulously decorated. Caparisoned elephants in traditional style and little angels with flowers and lamps accorded a warm welcome. The big ground was packed with around ten thousand people. Imagine how much time it took for the Darshan line! Then on to the cultural capital of Kerala - Thrissur where again over five thousand people gathered for a grand satsang in an indoor stadium. The teamwork at Thrissur was a unique example and this time around, the volunteers felt no pressure; they did very little but a lot happened. The entourage proceeded to Calicut. Not a space even for an ant to crawl at the biggest auditorium in Calicut and many had to be content watching the satsang in the closed circuit television placed outside.

The volunteers did a marvelous job throughout Kerala. Many healing experiences were reported during Satsangs. Guruji is back in the Bangalore Ashram for an other fortnight.

Jai Guru Dev

