

Weekly Knowledge #133	German Akademie Bad Antogast
24 Dec 1997	Germany
Celebration

Celebration Is Pure Vibration

Human life is a combination of matter, i.e., body and spirit or vibration. Isn't it? Pleasure or joy is becoming intense vibration. Joy is forgetting that you are matter and so you become intense vibration. All the carnal instincts will also make you feel intense vibrations momentarily. And that's how they give a glimpse of joy. But the thing is, it is short lived and it makes you dense later on. Pleasure that comes from Satsang is of a higher nature. Mantra and singing create vibrations in the spirit. That's why when you sing, the ecstasy stays for a long time. Pleasure in the subtle is long lasting, energizing, refreshing and freeing. Pleasure from the gross is short lived, tiring and binding.

When you know you are electricity (vibration/energy), then craving, greed, lust and anger disappear. And you become true celebration.

Message for Christmas: You are the Christmas tree. The Christmas tree is pointing upwards and its branches grow on all sides. It is orderly. At the time of year when no tree bears anything, it has many gifts to offer. And it is green throughout the year. A Christmas tree bears the gifts and the lights not for itself. All the gifts you are carrying in your life are for others. Anyone who comes to you, you offer them your gifts.

There were lots of gifts around Sri Sri's couch. John asked Sri Sri, "Are you going to open the gifts?" Sri Sri winked and pointed at the people and said, "I am always opening the gifts." (Laughter)

Your life is a gift. And you have come to unwrap the gift. In the process of unwrapping, you also save the wrappers. Your whole environment, situations, circumstances and body are the wrapping papers. When we unwrap, we destroy the wrapping paper. We are in such a hurry at times that we even destroy the gifts. With patience and endurance, open your gifts and save the wrapping papers.

NEWS FLASH: As hectic activities continue in the Bangalore Ashram, Sri Sri moved on to Madras for a huge Satsang. Then He went to Delhi where He met the Vice President of India. An unscheduled Satsang where around 12 hundred devotees gathered just by word of mouth! The same night Sri Sri left for Germany. The entire German Ashram is decorated. Every corridor and corner wears a festive look. Smiles from the people of 18 countries are the moving decorations.

There were lots of gift boxes of various sizes nicely wrapped up. And as Sri Sri kept lifting them, many of them were found to be hollow and empty!

Thanks to the whole seva team who has transformed the Ashram into a warm and cozy home.

Jai Guru Dev

