

Weekly Knowledge #145	Rishikesh
19 Mar 1998	India
Inside Out

Often people say, "Be the same inside as out". I ask you, how is this possible?

Inside you are a vast ocean, infinite sky; what you can show outside is only a tiny bit of it. Outside you are finite, just a small limited form, a normal stupid person!

All that you are, the love, the beauty, the compassion, the Divinity, doesn't show up fully. What shows up is the crust of behaviors. Ask yourself, "Are you really your behaviors? Are you just your behavioral patterns"? No....... Don't mistake this crust for your inside.

Neither take the limited body/mind complex as your inside nor show your Infinite Lordship outside, for Divinity is not easily understood. Let there be some mystery.

DON'T BE THE SAME INSIDE AND OUT!!

NEWS FLASH: For Holi, the Festival of Colors, the saints, merchant community and prominent people of Rishikesh joined with our course participants to celebrate. Sri Sri said The heart is white, the sign of purity in life; the head is orange, the symbol of sacrifice and life is all colorful. Later in the week Sri Sri met with the Shankaracharya and other saints. The school in Bangalore Ashram celebrated its Annual School Day with many local dignitaries along with parents in attendance.

Many healings were reported this week including a 56-year old man who had lost his vision, reporting after Kriya that he can now read the newspaper; a man who had suffered from abnormal blood pressure for 10-12 years was found to have normal blood pressure after learning Sudarshan Kriya. A 65 year old woman who has not even taken the course, the mother-in-law of a devotee, had a brain hemorrhage and multiple injuries caused by a fall. She was hospitalized on the 10th of January and remained there showing no improvement until the 2nd of March. She was unable to recognize even her own son. On the 2nd of March the doctors said nothing more could be done and gave her six hours to live. A photo of Sri Sri was placed on her bed. Her daughter-in-law held her hand and prayed. The next day, to the amazement of all, most especially the doctors, the blood sugar report, the EEG, the ECG, and all other reports were completely normal and she could recognize everyone. She is now home and managing the house while her daughter-in-law completes TTC.

Jai Guru Dev

