

Weekly Knowledge #156	Curepipe
03 Jun 1998	Mauritius
WHO WAKES UP FIRST?

Who Wakes Up First? You Or God?

You wake up first. God is still asleep. When you wake up first, you experience pain and pleasure. You become aware of the shortcomings of the world and its beauty. Then you cry for help and seek the ultimate and then you wake up God. And when God is awakened in you, there is no "two."

When both God and you are asleep, there is inertia. When the "I" is asleep, there is no experience.

God is in you in seed form. When he wakes up, you cease to exist. God is asleep in every particle in this universe. It's you who wakes up first and then you awaken God. And when God wakes up, neither you nor the world remain.

The rishis made a mockery. They created a practice of awakening God every morning. They call it Suprabhatam service. Many find this ridiculous because they don't understand the depth of it. Only awakened God can see that God is asleep everywhere. [Laughter.]

Brinda: Why should we wake up?

Sri Sri: Because you are not asleep. If you were asleep, how can you ask the question?

Bill: Once you are awake, can you go back to sleep?

Sri Sri: If you have not had tea, of course.

Bill: Who wakes us up?

Sri Sri: You figure that out.

NEWSFLASH! A tree planting program was begun at the Bangalore ashram. Guruji met with villagers and inaugurated the 4-H program: health, hygiene, home and human values. Satsang groups were started in the villages around the ashram. Guruji travelled from Bangalore to Bombay which was covered with big billboards. The city Satsang attracted over 5,000. When Guruji and entourage arrived at the airport for the trip to Mauritius, we were told the flight was overbooked and we would have to take a later flight. Guruji showed his "Guru card" and suddenly everything worked and all seven travellers had seats on the plane.

Then on to Mauritius where the volunteers did a wonderful job organising many events: interviews with television and radio, two Satsangs, a lecture at the University, audiences with the president and prime minister, and a visit to an old age home (attended by the Minister of Health and Minister of Women). The local Art of Living society has adopted the old age home as a seva project. During his last visit to Mauritius, Guruji captured the police, and this time he met with wardens and other prison officials. Vikram recorded the Seeds of Wisdom at a local radio station, which will broadcast one quote each day for the next month.

This ends the third year of Weekly Knowledge.

Homework for next week: Everyone individually or in their Satsang groups should write the Knowledge for next week and e-mail it to Bill and Anne at stillpoint@erols.com or fax to 301-854-0080.

Jai Guru Dev

