

Weekly Knowledge #157	New York City,NY
10 Jun 1998	USA
BEYOND THE RATIONAL MIND: BREAKING THE BARRIER

We Usually Do Only That Which Is Purposeful, Useful, And Rational. Everything You See, You See Through The rational mind. But an intuition, a discovery, new knowledge goes beyond the rational mind. Truth is beyond the rational mind.

The rational mind is like a railroad track that is fixed in grooves. A plane has no tracks. It can fly anywhere. A balloon can float anywhere.

Some people step out of the rational mind in order to rebel against society. They want to break social law but for the ego's sake. They do it out of anger, hatred, rebelliousness, and wanting attention. This is not stepping out of the rational mind (though they think it is).

We step out of the rational mind when we do something that has no purpose. Accepting that, as an act, makes it a game. Life becomes lighter. If you are stuck with only rational acts, life becomes a burden. Suppose you play a game without a thought to winning or losing, just act irrationally. Making an act without any purpose attached to it - it is freedom - like a dance.

So just step out of the rational mind and you will find a greater freedom, an unfathomable depth, and you willl come face to face with reality. Reality transcends logic and the rational mind. Until you transcend the rational mind you will not get access to creativity and the infinite.

But if you do an irrational act in order to find freedom, then it already has a purpose and a meaning. It is no longer irrational. This knowledge sheet has already spoiled it's own possibility.

Break the barrier of the rational mind and then find freedom for yourself.

NEWSFLASH! The Guru Magic worked magic in Botswana and South Africa. From Botswana where Sri Sri's talk made headlines in the newspapers, to Johannesburg and Durban where the Symposium on Human Values was attended by senior government officials and prominent religious leaders, the African tour has left crowds reeling. The Premier of the Kwa-Zulu Natal province offered to organize courses in the local prisons. The International Association for Human Values 1998 Award for promoting human values was awarded to President Nelson Mandela. Sri Sri moved on to enthusiastic crowds in Atlanta and New York. Tomorrow he will address the Values Caucus at the United Nations.

Jai Guru Dev

