

Weekly Knowledge #159	St.Louis, Missouri
24 Jun 1998	USA
GIVE AWAY YOUR RIGHTS

Those Who Fight For Their Rights Are Weak For They Do Not Know Their Inner Strength, Their Magnanimity. The weaker you are, the more you demand your rights. Asserting your rights makes you isolated and poor. People who fight for their rights, take pride in it. This is an ignorant pride. You need to recognize no one can take away your rights. They are yours.

The courageous will give away their rights. The degree to which you give away your rights indicates your freedom, your strength. The stronger you are the more you give away your rights. Only those who have their rights can give away their rights!!!

Demanding rights does not really bring you the rights, and giving them away does not really take them away.

Poor are those who demand their rights.

Richer are those who know their rights cannot be taken away.

Richest are those who give away their rights.

Demand for rights is ignorance, agony.

Knowing no one can take away your rights is freedom.

Giving away your rights is love, wisdom.

NEWS FLASH: Heavy cyclones hit the coastal areas of Gujarat, India. More than a thousand people were killed and about five thousand are missing. The Art of Living chapters sent teams of volunteers with about ten tons of grain, ten thousand pieces of clothing, and medicines to the villages of the Jamnagar District which were hardest hit. Volunteers raised a fund of Rs.250,000 in just two days.

Four courses were held for the women prisoners in Bangalore. The courses were very successful and lots of miraculous experiences were reported. Cases of hernia, asthma and appendicitis were completely cured. Participants reported visions of Guruji. Veena Ghandhi, a relative of Mahatma Gandhi, hosted the Satsang in Philadelphia. After the talk in New Jersey it was on to Pittsburgh where Guruji enjoyed a university professor who came to disrupt the meeting and to heckle, but who only added more charm.

Jai Guru Dev

The International Research Committee is designing a survey to measure how the Healing Breath Technique and related processes impact a practitioner's "quality of life." including physical health, mental health, social relations, spiritual life. If you have experienced any specific benefits or changes that you feel it is important to be included in the survey, please contact us through e-mail at: plslal@msn.com or fax us - Ronnie Newman & Peter Sutphen - at (954) 721-7437. We need to have the survey ready by the Lake Tahoe course, so we should have your responses by wednesday, July 1, 1998 at the latest. Thank You & Jai Guru Dev !

