

Weekly Knowledge #168	Hamburg
26 Aug 1998	Germany
EXPANSION OF CONSCIOUSNESS IS PEACE

Consciousness moving on the surface of the body is stimuli, which cause pleasure. When consciousness shrinks, then the sensation of pain and suffering arises. Suffering is the shrinking or contraction of consciousness.

When consciousness moves through the body in limited channels, pleasure is experienced. Repeated enjoyment of the stimuli causes inertia and dullness. Often cooks don't enjoy their own food. Listening to the same piece of music loses the charm, people in the sex industry don't enjoy sex. If the stimuli are observed, then consciousness expands and becomes peace. With awareness the stimuli lose their significance; whether they exist or not makes no difference. When the sun is there, then whether the candle is lit or not makes no difference. To realise that all pleasures are just stimuli and that you are more than the stimuli brings freedom.

Pain is nothing but consciousness wanting to expand and to become free. Freedom basically is liberation from the craving of the stimuli. Pain is not a permanent state. The natural tendency of consciousness is to expand, to become bliss. Like the natural tendency of water is to flow downward, and the natural tendency of air is not to be under pressure, the natural tendency of consciousness is to expand and to be at peace. Like the person who is an insomniac and has forgotten how to sleep, most of us have forgotten to be at peace and in bliss.

Question	
:
What about the pleasure in Satsang?
Answer	
:
The pleasure of Satsang takes you towards expansion.
 



NEWS FLASH !

A beautiful course in the beautiful mountain setting of Norway ... visit to the Tamilian Sri Lankan temple in Oslo ... public lectures in Sweden ... it was always the same: everyone blissfully cried out "please stay longer". Guruji visited Finland for the first time for a total of 15 hours. In this short time, he made the headline news on the main television channel. Several people dreamed of Sri Sri even before hearing about him. Many people signed up for the basic course.In Hamburg, Guruji addressed the oldest Rotary Club of Europe along with a blissful Satsang in a fully packed church which left everyone spell-bound. Welcoming Guruji, the priest said "It is time to open the church doors for real spiritual knowledge".

JAl GURU DEV

