

Weekly Knowledge #169	Muszyna
03 Sep 1998	Poland
DEPENDENCE, INDEPENDENCE, INTERDEPENDENCE AND ONENESS

The body is dependent on the whole creation. In society, somebody has to make clothes, produce electricity, drill for oil. The body cannot be independent of the world. For the body, dependency is absolute. When the Spirit identifies with the body, then it gets pinched and looks for independence. Mind, intellect, ego - they all look for independence.

In looking for independence often you get stuck in the ego and become more miserable. Most people are not aware of their dependency. When they become aware of their limitations and dependency, the desire for independence arises. Independence cannot be achieved unless you start moving from within. When you move within, you discover that you are interdependent. Individual Self/Soul/Jeeva is interdependence and in fact every wise person knows that everything is interdependent and that there is nothing like independence.

On one level dependency is a harsh reality. On another level, it is an illusion because there is nothing else but the Self. It's only when you don't feel oneness, belongingness that you want independence. The Self being non-dual, there is no question of dependence or independence. One who asks for independence is a beggar. One who knows that it is an illusion is a King. When the sense of belongingness is not well founded, then there is a volatile state in the life of a seeker. Then the ego finds some excuse to revert to smallness. It is not yet totally soaked in the totality of knowledge. As it is not used to it, the mind finds every little excuse to revert back to the ego and to be aloof and independent and separate and it would find any small fault and blow it out of proportion. Be aware of these tendencies and come what may, be strong in the commitment to the Satsang, the Path.

Question	
:
How about self-sufficiency?
Answer	
:
Self is sufficient and efficient. . . . [laughter]
 


NEWS FLASH !

In the past 240 days, Sri Sri visited 92 places. In the ashram in Germany, TTC1 and TTC2 were in jubilee, the basic course was like an advanced course. Assisted by the official Polish government interpreter, Guruji addressed an enthusiastic audience of 1,700 in Warsaw. Everything was arranged professionally and elegantly. There were about 1,000 people including VIPs and the TV crews who could not get in. It took great skill and effort for the organisers to pacify them. From there 450 people have moved to the scenic Muszyna camp for an advanced course.

JAl GURU DEV

