

Weekly Knowledge #188	Bad Antogast
21 Jan 1999	Germany
WELCOMING AND RESISTING

Do you welcome all that comes to you or do you resist it? If you cannot resist anything, you cannot welcome anything! You cannot resist everything and you cannot welcome everything!

You don't welcome all thoughts that come to your mind. When you welcome a thought, it means you find it good and act on it. If you act on all thoughts that come to your mind, you will end up in a mental hospital or in prison. So, you resist or ignore some thoughts and welcome other thoughts. You need discrimination in life. Welcoming and resisting is a swing in life.

Welcoming is essential for expansion and growth, and resistance is essential for maintenance.

Audience: But what you resist persists!

Guruji: If you resist a cold it does not persist! If there is no resistance in your body you cannot survive. Your body resists something and welcomes something.

Where the resistance is weak, the persistence happens. A weak resistance makes the opposition persist. A strong resistance erases the opposition. Strong resistance leads to valour, power and samadhi (equanimity). It brings in you the strength of a warrior. Nothing can tempt you, nothing can obstruct you. Then the victory is gained without fighting. Where there is strong resistance or total welcome, the victory is gained without any fighting.

NEWS FLASH

Laughing clubs started this week in Europe. Today the Art of Living will be delivering a half an hour presentation at the United Nations World Health Committee in New York.

The Sikh priest from the Sikh temple of Frankfurt came to the Ashram for chanting of the Holy Book (Sukhmani Sahib). There was a roaring laughter session in the ashram later in the afternoon. Only those who were there would know the cause and effect of it.

Holland television has made a documentary on Guruji.

All countries are requested to send 3 sets of all their literature, tapes, newspaper articles and publicity materials by mid-February to the Akademie Bad Antogast.

 

Jai Guru Dev

