

Weekly Knowledge #182	Cochin
03 Dec 1998	India
SUBLIMATING LUST

Lust is one of the main botherations that many face. Lust grips the mind and tires the body, and dulls the intellect.

Lust when indulged brings inertia, and when suppressed brings anger. Lust is nothing but primordial un-harnessed energy. The same when harnessed manifests as enthusiasm, sparkle, sharpness of intellect and love.

What are the factors which can sublimate or transform lust into love?

Playfulness : People who are in the grip of lust cannot be genuinely playful. When you are genuinely playful, then there is not lust there.
Generosity : When you realize that you are here only to give and give, and you feel that you are very generous, lust is sublimated. Lust makes one possessive and not generous.
Moderate to less intake of food
Remembrance of death
Divine Romance
Cold water baths
Undertaking creative challenges
NEWs FLASH !

Creation returned to the source as Sri Sri visited Shimoga, the birthplace of the Art of Living, to a tumultuous traditional welcome. The course participants from 1982 met Guruji saying that their every single wish has been granted, and thanked him for the enormous grace and joy that their lives are filled with. A grand satsang there began a hectic, fun-filled week for Sri Sri and all of us.

Guruji stopped in Shringeri overnight and met with the Shankaracharya, they had a silent dialogue!

In Mangalore, Guruji's first ever Satsang had over 4000 people, and an elaborate welcome with the sound of huge horns.

On to Kerala, known as "God's own country", where the picturesque country-side and thousands of enthusiastic devotees greeted the Master ecstatically. Thallassery had its first ever Satsang, and Calicut saw thousands thronging the hall. On this trip, Sri Sri has astonished organisers and delighted audiences by speaking in the local language (Malayalam) - which he is not supposed to know!!

Trissur, the cultural capital of Kerala, welcomed Sri Sri with caparisoned elephants, traditional drums and horns, and had a moonlit, open-air Satsang of over 10,000! Of course many healing experiences are being reported. Even as Sri Sri is making headlines in all the leading newspapers, many amazing/amusing incidents have been "happening".

Guruji stopped the car at a small village, and was immediately surrounded by the locals. One of them said that after seeing Guruji's photo in the newspaper, he had been praying to Guruji ever since. His joy new no bounds when Guruji visited his tiny shop and blessed him.

Earlier, an autorickshaw driver was doing pranam to Guruji's poster -imagine his surprise when he turned and saw Guruji smiling from the car next to him!

JAl GURU DEV

 

