

Weekly Knowledge #194	Rishikesh
04 Mar 1999	India
LOVE AND LUST

Doubt cannot come where there is a sense of closeness. Doubt needs a distance to appear. You never doubt something that is dear to you, close to you.

In love even an object gains life. Stones speak to you, trees speak to you, the sun, the moon and the whole creation becomes alive, Divine. In lust even a living being becomes a mere object. You want to use even people like objects. Here are some salient attributes of love and lust. They are so different yet so close! If you find more you may add to the list.

Lust bring tension	Love brings relaxation
Lust focuses on the part	Love focuses on the whole
Lust brings violence	Love brings sacrifice
In lust you want to grab and possess	In love you want to give and surrender
Lust says all I want you to have is what I want	Love says I want you to have what you want
In lust there is effort	Love is effortless
Lust causes feverishness and frustration	Love causes longing and pain
Lust imprisons and destroys	Love liberates and sets you free
Lust demands	Love commands
Lust gets you mixed up and confused	In love you are focused and spaced out!!
Lust is only dark and monotonous	Love has many modes and colours
 

If someone's lust is interrupted they get angry and start hating. Hatred in the world today is not out of love, it is out of lust.

Love is playfulness and in lust there is cunningness and manipulation. Shiva, the embodiment of innocence and love was meditating. His meditation was disturbed by an arrow of flowers from the lord of lust. As soon as Shiva woke up he opened his third eye and the lord of lust, Manmatha (one who churns the mind) was reduced to ashes. Everybody celebrated by throwing colors on each other realising that life is full of colours.

We play many roles in our life. If all the roles get mixed up it becomes dark, like when you mix all the colours. The wise play each role distinctively side by side, like colors displayed side by side form a rainbow.

 

NEWS FLASH !

Only ten thousand people attended the Calcutta Satsang as public transport was closed down, by a State-wide bandh(strike). Thedecorations, Satsang and Guruji's talk all combined to create a dream world. People are still in a daze after so many days.

Onto the Pink City (Jaipur), for a dignitaries' meeting, followed by wonderful satsang which saw the thronging crowd playing with flowers. On this tour a couple came up with a unique way of showing their gratitude, a giant rose garland weighing over sixty pounds!!

Now the celebration continues in Rishikesh - people from all over North India came to celebrate Holi, the festival of colours, with the master.

 

JAl GURU DEV

 

