

Weekly Knowledge #191	Bangalore Ashram
12 Feb 1999	India
LOVE'S WISDOM

I chant the name of my beloved in every breath. The beloved is faultless - perfect. But being in love I have lost my reputation.When there is so much love, you take total responsibility for any misunderstanding. You may express dismay for a moment on the surface. But when you do not feel that in your heart, you arrive at a perfect understanding. You are in a state where all problems and differences slide away and only love shines through.

Usually we get stuck in our differences, because we have lost sight of ourselves. In the name of love we try to manipulate and control the other person. This is natural that when we love somebody, we want them to be perfect.

You can never see the pits in the ground from the top of a hill. From a plane the earth looks so smooth. So also from a state of elevated consciousness, you do not see the pitfalls in others. But if you come to the ground you always see the holes. And when you want to fill the holes, you have to see them. You cannot build a home being airborne. You cannot till the land without looking at the pits, filling them, removing the pebbles....

That is why when you love somebody you find all the faults in them. But finding faults destroys love. Instead of filling the pits we run away from them. When you love somebody and see their faults, stay with them and help them fill the pits. This is wisdom.



NEWS FLASH !

The Shankaracharya of Elenir Mutt (Ashram) enthralled the Satsangees with his mellifluous rendering of bhajans. After our devotees started singing, Swamiji was so inspired that he forgot the time, grabbed the mike and started singing again.

It has been proposed to open an international school of Journalism in the ashram to give a positive effect to journalism. Those who are experienced in this field are invited to provide inputs.

JAl GURU DEV

IMPORTANT NOTE FOR CENTRE COORDINATORS IN INDIA

Those who are arriving for the 16-18 meet and wish to place orders for the Divine Shop, may kindly do so immediately by email. The DD for the 80% may be carried when you arrive at Bangalore.

