

Weekly Knowledge #208	Arenal Volcano
16 Jun 1999	Tabacon, Costa Rica
BLESSED ARE THOSE WHO ARE BORED

Only a conscious, alert and dynamic person can get bored. A dull and inert person doesn't get bored. If you get bored, it indicates you are more alive and human. It is a sign that you are growing, that you are evolving.

An animal, for example, keeps doing the same thing. It never gets bored. Cows, horses, birds do the same things over and over all their lives.

People eat, watch television, change jobs, change partners to escape boredom. And they get frustrated. And frustration takes them back to inertia and unconsciousness.

Only in two states the boredom does not occur: in a state of total inertia or in a state of Divine Consciousness. If you are bored, it indicates you are evolving. Boredom moves you.

Jim: Boredom moves you towards the divine.

Guruji: Yes. Be proud of your boredom and celebrate!!!!!!

Volcanic NEWS FLASH

Maybe you are bored listening to "the hall was packed" all the time.... Well, in Bogota, Colombia, about 100 people showed up for a morning lecture at the university. The microphone came at the end and so did most of the people! About 12 showed up for another university talk, but Guruji was not there. In contrast, the evening Satsang was so crowded and there was much confusion. The meditation was reduced to 5 minutes as many had to keep standing. [McQueen went on strike and refused to write this news flash because it was too factual. (laughter)]

The Dominican Republic's devotion and organizing power pulled Guruji on an 11-hour marathon to reach them. After his last minute trip to the ocean, Guruji boarded the plane soaking wet. In Panama the warmth of the Latin-American hearts and songs lit up the Satsangs. In Costa Rica Guruji had a diplomatic reception and a motorcycle escort, and his talk was co-sponsored by the University of Peace and the National Commission for Human Values. The first Lady, on behalf of the president, received Guruji at the palace and extended her full-hearted support for art of Living activities in Costa Rica.

Guruji was fascinated by the orange fire spewing down the side of the volcano as we drove through the rain forest at midnight. Today the knowledge sheet erupted at the foot of the volcano.

Jai Guru Dev

