

Weekly Knowledge #215	Bad Antogast
04 Aug 1999	Germany
HOW TO CONQUER JEALOUSY OR ENVY

1.	 	Know that the person that you are jealous or envious of has done some good karma in the past and they are now reaping the fruit.
2.	 	Take it as an inspiration to gain merit now.
3.	 	Create a sense of belongingness with them. See that they are a part of you.
4.	 	Think of all you have that they don't have and feel grateful.
5.	 	Ananda says, "Observe the sensations."
6.	 	Join hands and form a team with them.
7.	 	Realise that in the current of moving time all will perish.
8.	 	Think of everyone that is jealous of you for what you have.
 	Stephano added: "And see that all that people envy you for has not brought joy anyway."
9.	 	Stephano: "Go and ask them 'are you happy?' "
 	Caroline: "And what if they say 'Yes?' " (Laughter!).
 	If the answer is "yes" then they must be in the Art of Living (Laughter!)
 	"What to do if others are jealous or envious of you?"
Ananda	
:
"What to do if others are jealous or envious of you?"

1.	 	Praise them in superlatives.
2.	 	Create a sense of belongingness in them by your kind actions.
3.	 	Know that their feelings are temporary.
4.	 	The best is not to recognise their envy or jealousy at all. If you recognise a feeling as a reality it only makes your ignorance grow.
 
5.	 	Know all feelings and emotions are just like passing clouds.
6.	 	Do not show off your talents to them.
7.	 	Know that they are puppets. They will all perish like apples and tomatoes - just a longer shelf-life (Laughter!).
 
If nothing else works just go to sleep (Shirley: "And don't forget to take a pillow").

 

NEWS FLASH

Question : With all the talk of the eclipse on the 11th of August what should we do?
The time during an eclipse is an auspicious time for doing spiritual practices. Make sure your stomach is fairly empty. You should stop eating at least a couple of hours before the beginning of an eclipse and you may do your spiritual practices such as meditation, Kriya, Satsangs, etc.

It is advisable that pregnant women and nursing mothers (for the first three months) stay in-doors during the time of an eclipse (3-4 hours).

The AOL and Human Values 5H Program brochure was so nice that the Government of India stole the program word-for-word and made it into their own but we're not jealous about it!

As usual Bad Antogast is filled with celebration.

Jai Guru Dev

 

