

Weekly Knowledge #231	Bangalore Ashram
09 Dec 1999	India
THE FIVE SECRETS

There are five secrets which are sacred and are guarded by the subtle beings and angels in this creation. They are:

Jananarahasya (the secret of birth)
Birth is a secret. How a soul takes a body, the criteria for selecting the place of birth, time of birth, type of body, parents, etc are all a secret.

2. Maranarahasya (the secret of death)

Death is a highly guarded secret. Death remains a mystery. The process of separation of spirit from matter and its journey from then on is a secret.

Rajarahasya (the royal secret, the secret of ruling)
The principles of governing; the principles of maintaining the orderliness in creation are a secret.

4. Prakritirahasya (the secret of nature)

Nature is a mystery. The more you know about nature, the mystery deepens. The more a scientist knows, the more he feels there is much more to know. Science, though appearing to resolve the mystery in creation, has deepened it. The knowledge of particles, wave functions, black holes, the vacuum state, etc have only deepened the mystery.

5. Mantrarahasya (secret of mantras)

The mantras and their effect, influence, method and mode of working are all a mystery. Mantras are the impulses or rhythms of consciousness, which itself is a mystery.

Usually in the West, a secret is shameful and dishonest. But in the East, it is honored and regarded as sacred.

NEWS FLASH

Sri Sri's tour of seven cities in Kerala saw thousands of people coming to satsangs, culminating in the grandest ever satsang and meditation of the millennium. Over seventy-five thousand people sat enraptured in meditation for half an hour in pin-drop silence in Thiruvananthapuram, the capital city of Kerala.

Our teachers Nitin Limaye and Bharat Shirur, representing Guruji and the Art of Living, addressed the World Parliament of Religions in Cape Town, South Africa this week.

Want to see wild elephants? You don't need to visit Africa! These days around forty to fifty wild elephants have been visiting the Ashram school and lakes by night.

Jai Guru Dev

