

Weekly Knowledge #235	Milano
06 Jan 2000	Italy
Five Factors That Influence the Mind

Place, Time, Food, Past Impressions, and Associations and Actions

The space -the place you are in.
Every place you are in, has a different impact on the mind. Even in your house, you can see that you feel different in different rooms. A place where there there has been singing, chanting and meditation has a different influence on the mind. Suppose you like a particular place; you may find that a little later it will not be the same.

Time is also a factor.
Different times of the day and year have different influences on the mind.

Different types of food that you take influence you for some days.

The past impressions-the Karmas- have a different impact on the mind. Awareness, alertness, knowledge and meditation all help erase the past impressions.

Associations and actions
The people and events you are associated with do influence your mind. Your actions and associations effect your mind. In certain company your mind behaves in one way and with others in a different way.

Question	
:
Should we worry about them?
Answer	
:
No need to be paranoid about it. Just know them!

Though these five factors influence the life and the mind, know that the Self is much more powerful. As you grow in knowledge, you will influence them all.



NEWS FLASH:

1300 people from over 41 countries gathered to celebrate the New Millennium Satsang and Advanced Course at Massa di Carrara, Tuscany, Italy. As the sun set, they gathered on the shore of the Mediterranean with Guruji chanting Om to say goodbye to the passing millennuim. They were uplifted and inspired by a silent mediation at midnight and Satsang with extemporary bhagans in many languages. Satsangs and New Years Advanced Courses were held around the world in over 93 countries to welcome the New Millennium.

On January 6th Guruji spoke on Italian national television as part of the continuing celebration.

The Advanced Course people were so blissed out that the French translator spoke into the Italian earphones for forty minutes and the French had no translation and no one commented!!!

Dog Story:
So there was this man who walked his dog every day for 7 years. On this particular day he goes to walk the dog and the dog misbehaves and runs away from him. The dog runs for about 10 minutes. The man finds him standing under a pole announcing the Milano Satsang. So the man sees him standing there and the dog won't move. This forces him to read the poster. He decides that the dog ran all over because the dog wanted the man to see the poster. The man called his friends and told them to come to the Satsang.
The dog lead the men to the Divine.

"Ever New Happy You!"

JAl GURU DEV

 

