

Weekly Knowledge #276	Bangalore Ashram
26 Oct 2000	India
LOVE IS THE SHADOW OF THE SELF

When you love something, you have a sense of belongingness with it. You can only love something, because it is belongs to you. If it is not yours, you cannot love it. Love is the shadow of the Self.

The bigger the Self, the bigger the shadow, and the bigger the love.

When the love is cast over the entire creation, then you are the Big Self. That is the Lordship.

When the Lordship dawns on the Self, there is perennial celebration.

*****

Deepawali happens.

Today is Deepawali, the festival of lights. There are many stories associated with this day.

It was this day that the demon Narakasaura was killed. King Narakasura (Naraka means hell) had been granted a boon that he could be destroyed only by a woman. Lord Krishnaҳ wife Satyabhama was the one to destroy him.

Why only Satyabhama could kill Naraka? Satya means truth and bhama means the beloved. Untruth or lack of love cannot conquer hell.  It cannot be removed by aggression. Hell can only be erased by love and surrender. Non-aggression, love and surrender are the inherent qualities of a woman. Hence only Satyabhama, the true beloved could remove hell and bring the light back. And Narakasuraҳ last wish was that every house should celebrate his exit with lights to mark the end of darkness. This is Deepawali.

Also it was today that Lord Rama returned to Ayodhya, his Kingdom, after his victory over Ravana, the demon king. Ayodhya means that which cannot be destroyed, i.e. life. Ram means the Atma (the Self). When Self rules in life, then knowledge lights up. There is life everywhere. But when the spirit is awakened in life, deepawali happens.

NEWS FLASH

Priyansh, a two and half year old boy was playing with his friends on his 8th floor balcony. A little later, his sister came running in and told that her brother had fallen down and is lying flat on the ground below. When everyone went down, the father thought that the boy was dead. To their surprise, they found the child was blissfully lying down without even a tooth broken. Barring a small injury to his leg, everything was fine. When enquired, Priyansh told his father that Guruji saved him

Jai Guru Dev

