

Weekly Knowledge #280	European Ashram
23 Nov 2000	Germany
THE PROBLEM'S SOLUTION

Whenever there is a problem we either deny it saying there is no problem or sit to solve the problem and make it a big issue. Neither of these help. A problem does not disappear when you deny it. And it does not get solved when you sit to solve it.

The 5 steps to solve a problem:

1. Acknowledge the problem - it is there.

2. See it as a small problem, and do not say it is big.

3. If it concerns people, keep in touch with them instead of avoiding them.

4. Talk less and give time a chance.

5. Get together and celebrate. When you celebrate and put the problem on the back burner you will see that the problem will get solved by the way.

So it is wise not to sit to solve a problem. Most of the meetings to solve problems end up in disaster.

If you do not have any problem, you will create problems for others! (laughter) If you have a small problem in your pocket to solve, it will give a focus to your mind. If you do not have any problems, you may be a problem for others.

It is better to have a problem than to be a problem.

NEWS FLASH The south zone organizers of India who came to solve problems finally found out that they had one problem: they had no problem.

In New Delhi, the Imam Maulana Illyasi, who is the president of the organization of Imams in India met with Guruji along with the Turkish delegation and participated in the satsang. Back in Bangalore, Guruji gave the concluding address at the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII).

Before leaving for Frankfurt, a brief stopover at Chennai, where even the two hours were spent going into the city to enthuse the twenty five 5H youth leaders Ö the Yuvacharyas.

 

Jai Guru Dev

SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENTS

Celebration in Jail

The Prison SMART Program, which is being implemented in the Los Angeles Probation's "Violence Alternative Program", will paint the inside of the prison walls with the Bakti Sutras for the inmates to reflect on.

Every morning at 6:30 a.m. the incarcerated gang members all gather for morning meditation, and every evening there is Satsang.

This is truly a Cell-Liberation.

If you want to be a part of the solution contact the Prison SMART Program at:

Info@PrisonSmart.org

 

