

Weekly Knowledge #287	Canadian Ashram
11 Jan 2001	Canada
                                "IMPORTANT" AND "UNIMPORTANT"

So many people are stuck with what is "important". Why do you always have to do only that which is important? Most people are caught up thinking about what is important.

For something to be important, there need to be many things that are unimportant. So you cannot eliminate unimportant things. It is important to have unimportant things to make something else important. (Laughter.) Things are either themselves important or they make other things important. So that means everything is important, and. everything is unimportant.

When you realize this fact you become choiceless.

When you say something is important you are limiting your vastness.

A journalist asked me, "Why is it important to breathe?" "Why is it important to be happy?" "Why is it important to have peace?" These questions are not relevant at all. Why should you always look for what is important? Something that is unimportant can contribute to something that is important. And what is important and unimportant changes with time and space. Food is important when you are hungry and unimportant when you are full.

When something is inevitable you don't categorize it as important or unimportant. It is beyond choice.

"Everything is important" is karma yoga. "Nothing is important" is deep meditation.

NEWS FLASH

Two African countries, Benin and Togo, have entered the Art of Living family - bringing the total number to 112.

A Montreal devotee who is a cab driver by profession picked up a passenger one night who appeared overcome by drugs and alcohol. The passenger demanded to be taken to his destination for half-fare, and when the driver protested he pulled a gun. At first the driver was afraid, but when he looked at the photo of Gurudev on the dashboard he felt completely protected. During the drive, the passenger put the gun away. Eventually he asked  who was the person in the photo. When they reached the destination, the passenger bowed to the picture and paid the driver the full fare along with a handsome tip.

Additional information on last week's NewsFlash-Guruji requested that we identify the devotee:

The City Council in Alpharetta, Georgia, USA, planned to remove several 150-year old oak trees as part of a street-widening project. The engineering firm, cable company, and phone company made their studies and gave approval. Local people who wanted to save the trees were told, "There's no hope; it's finished." A devotee -- Juanita Rocca -- put Guruji's picture on each tree and phoned the city officials to tell them the trees were protected by a saint. Word spread through the town and 300 protestors, along with full media coverage, showed up at the City Council. Plans were abandoned, and the trees are happily standing.

