

Weekly Knowledge #282	Kannur,Kerala
10 Dec 2000	India
I AM GOD

It was thought that to say, "I am God" is blasphemy.  I tell you, to say "I am not God" is blasphemy! When you say, "I am not God," you deny God of His omnipresence.

You are made up of love.  If you say, "I am not God," you are denying that God is love. If you are love and you say, "I am not God," you are saying God is not love, and that is blasphemy.

"I am" is your consciousness. If you say, "I am not God," you deny that God is aware, alert and awake.  You exist. When you say, "I am not God," you deny God of a portion of existence, and that is blasphemy.  Also, you are denying the scriptures that say, "God made man in His own image." If you say, "I am not God," you are denying God.

Question:  If God is omnipresent, why is there hatred and suffering in this world?

Sri Sri:  Just as in a movie, it doesn't matter whether it is a tragedy or a comedy, or one with a happy ending; in the Absolute there are no opposites. All the opposites are part of relative existence.

Relative existence is not the complete picture. Good and bad, right and wrong, everything is relative. For example, milk is good, but too much milk can kill you. A drop of poison can save a life (most medicines have "POISON" written on them). These are neither absolutely good nor bad; they are just there.

Truth transcends duality, and God is the absolute and only truth. In a movie, when light passes through the film, it doesn't matter to the light what the film is. Tragedy or comedy, hero or villain, the light is always there.

In the same way, no matter what is happening in your mind, YOU ARE GOD!

NEWS FLASH As soon as Guruji landed in Bombay, there was a Mahakriya for 15,000 people

followed by a Satsang of 50,000!

Art of Living was the most "happening" thing in all of Northern Kerala. The largest grounds and stadiums in every city were brimming over with jubilant faces. In Thrissur, 1 lakh people turned up for Satsang, in spite of a "bandh" and a complete transport strike! On to Palghat, where two lakh devotees eagerly welcomed the Master. Calicut, with over two lakh people, was next, and then came Kannur, a politically disturbed small town. All the different religious and political factions forgot their differences for a day, and sang united and strong in a Satsang of over two lakh people!

And then on to Mangalore for an intimate Satsang.

Guruji visited five major cities in five days, and many other cities in 10-15 minute stopovers. Each of these places had enthusiastically organized Satsangs with huge crowds.  Nearly one million people in Kerala participated in Satsang and meditation in the presence of the Master in the last five days!

 

Jai Guru Dev

Special Announcement

Prison administrators from Los Angeles, where the Prison SMART Foundation (P.S.F.) has

been teaching a new course every Monday morning for gang members, have informed the P.S.F. that reported fights dropped from 14 to 4 in one month. The application of Satsang in prison has had a direct correlated impact.


To contact Prison SMART Email: TomDuffy@prisonSMART.org

