

Weekly Knowledge #289	Prayag
26 Jan 2001	India
THE KUMBHA MELA

Once every 12 years, all the seers, saints and aspirants of spiritual knowledge congregate at the confluence (sangam), of the 3 holy rivers, Ganga, Yamuna and Saraswati. The Ganga is a symbol of Knowledge and Self-inquiry. It is on the banks of the Yamuna that events of love have been immortalized. When Knowledge and Love come together, when the head meets the heart, Saraswati, symbolic of wisdom and the fine arts emerge.

When a tiny atom explodes, the radiation lasts for a long time ... the mind is even more subtle than one millionth of an atom. When the mind explodes, that is Enlightenment.

Over the centuries, thousands of sages who have meditated, done penance and been enlightened come to the "Kumbha Mela" and relieve themselves of the burden of the merits gained through Sadhana by bathing in the rivers. Water has the quality to absorb the energy that they radiate. The seekers, who come from all corners to be in the company of the seers and saints, gain that merit when they take a dip in the rivers.

Space by itself cannot be bought, and a lump of clay has no value, but when space is enveloped by clay it gains value, this is a Kumbha (pot). Spirit is all over in Nature, but when it dawns in the human body as an elevated state of consciousness, then it gains immense value. An Embodied and elevated spirit is usually referred to as Kumbha. This is why the enlightened age is also called the Aquarian age. Kumbha denotes a pot, which is symbolic of fullness and perfection.

The Kumbha Mela is an ancient version of a spiritual expo.

NEWS FLASH Guruji was in Prayag for the Kumbha Mela. There were many very touching incidents that happened which show the depth of the devotion of the people who had gathered there. Here are two of them.

One morning, Guruji noticed an 80-year-old woman who had been separated from her folks. She looked tired and hungry. Guruji sent someone to give her some money, which she refused to accept saying that she had come here to give, not to take! Guruji Himself had to go to her and tell her that the money was prasad, which she then took from Him.

It was very cold there every night, the temperature dropping to 2 or 3 deg Celsius, and a lot of people had no accommodation whatsoever and would just sleep in the sand on the banks of the rivers, most of them not even having a shawl to cover themselves with. Guruji along with some yuvacharyas and other devotees would go and distribute a lot of blankets every night to these people. Thousands of blankets were distributed every night One night, they came across a teenager who was shivering with cold and gave him some blankets to cover himself with, which he refused to take saying, that he could bear this cold, and that there were so many others who would need them much more than him.

Guruji later told everyone to note the devotion and the total surrender of these people who even in such desperate circumstances had such absolute faith in the Divine and knew that He would provide for them.

Our Ashram was bustling with activity all day long and attracted many people; food was being served continuously, throughout the day. The community of saints there was overjoyed to meet with Guruji and lauded the work of Art of Living.

Back in Delhi Guruji had very fruitful meetings with various leaders including the leader of Jamma Masjid.

Jai Guru Dev

