

Weekly Knowledge #300	Singapore
12 Apr 2001	Singapore
DEALING WITH BLAME AND ACCUSATION


When someone blames you, you feel a heavy load on your head, and when you talk about it you spread the unpleasant feeling all around you. At this moment wake up and see you are Being and nothing can touch you. This is all just a drama, which you yourself have created. You have gone through this over and over again. All the blames you face in your life are your own creation. Knowing this, you feel free and light.

Owning responsibility for all your experiences in life makes you powerful and will put an end to grumbling, planning counter attacks, explanations, and all those host of negative tendencies. Owning full responsibility you become free.

When someone blames you, directly or indirectly, what do you do?

Do you register it in your mind and get emotionally upset?
Do you dismiss them altogether without taking a lesson from it?
Do you talk about it with people and waste your time and otherҳ time and money?
Do you pity yourself and blame your shortcomings?
Do you blame the other person right, left and center?
Do you generalize and eternalize the problem?

Then you are not living up to the knowledge. You need to do the basic course at least half a dozen times and read all the previous knowledge sheets.

Do you laugh at it and not even take notice of it?
Do you treat it as a non-event, not even worth talking about, let alone taking any action?
Do you treat comments and accusations as passing clouds and more of an entertainment?
Do you discourage dwelling on unpleasant and negative moments?
Do you remain non-judgmental and absolutely unshaken in your space of love?
Outwardly you may be calm, but do you also remain centered and calm within you and not even take pride in your growth or wisdom?

Then you are a pride to your tutor - the Master.



You cannot take credit for loving Guruji or any wise person, as you have no choice at all as it will happen against all odds!

To love someone whom you like is not a big deal at all.
To love someone because they love you, you get zero marks.
To love someone whom you do not like, you have learned a lesson in life.
To love someone who blames you for no reason, you have learned the art of living.

NEWS FLASH A gentleman complained to Guruji about how some people have ganged up against him and blame him. Guruji gave a patient hearing, with a few comments in between. The person felt he gained some sympathy and as he started feeling righteous, Guruji shot back saying, "You have already wasted enough of your time. Why do you want to waste mine also! You only get what you have sown!"

Suddenly the whole atmosphere became serene and smiles returned.

Jai Guru Dev

