

Weekly Knowledge #294	Udaipur,Jagmandir
01 Mar 2001	India
THE OTHER SIDE OF FEAR

The Usefulness of Fear

Nature has put an amount of inbuilt fear in all living beings. This fear makes life defend itself, protect itself. Like salt in the food, a little bit of fear is essential for people to be righteous.

Fear of hurting someone makes you more conscious.

Fear of failure makes you more keen and dynamic.

Fear moves you from carelessness to taking care.

Fear moves you from being insensitive to being sensitive.

Fear moves you from dullness to alertness.

Total lack of fear may lead to destructive tendencies - a distorted ego knows no fear. Neither does the expanded consciousness! Whereas the ego dismisses the fear and moves in a disruptive manner, the wise one acknowledges the fear and takes refuge in the Divine.

When you are in love, when you are surrendered, there is no fear. Ego, too, knows no fear. But there is a difference, like that of heaven and earth, between these two types of fearless states.

Fear makes you righteous; fear brings you close to surrender; fear keeps you on the path; keeps you from being destructive. Peace and law are maintained on the planet because of fear.

A new-born child knows no fear - it totally relies on its mother. Whether a child, a kitten or a bird, when they start becoming independent they experience fear which makes them go running back to their mothers.  This is inbuilt by nature to sustain life.

So, the purpose of fear is to bring you back to the source!!

NEWS FLASH Guruj's entire journey from Bombay to Surat was punctuated by Darshan. Enthusiastic devotees, in hundreds, thronged every station. 40,000 attended the live Kriya in Surat setting off a wave of energy, culminating in a high-vol satsang of over 300,000 people.

On to Ahmedabad, where Guruji's meeting with the Chief Minister and bureaucrats proved extremely useful. Guruji suggested drastic changes in the lay-out plan of the 900 quake-hit villages which are to be rebuilt. His ideas were greatly appreciated and immediately incorporated.

Guruji wondered whether He was awakening people or not, but devotees who showed up all night at different stations between Ahmedabad and Udaipur, armed with musical bands, definitely kept waking everyone up with their fervor!

Guruji's first ever visit to the City of Jheels (lakes), Udaipur, saw a grand satsang. He also met with NGO's and gave a highly illuminating talk on Integrated Social Development. Gliding softly over the moon-lit waters in a boat to the glittering Jagmandir, He was given a royal reception and the satsang happened in regal splendour!

"When the Divine dwells in your heart, the whole world appears to you as a temple¦quot;

Guruji's entourage decided that it was high time He stopped traveling by train. On the last leg of this wonderfully eventful trip from Udaipur to Delhi, there was a brief stop-over for 20 minutes at Jaipur where a welcome stage and over a thousand devotees compelled Guruji to deplane and give Darshan right there, even at the airport, where Satsang happened spontaneously!!!

Jai Guru Dev

