

Weekly Knowledge #330	Taipei
09 Nov 2001	Taiwan
Volunteer

Who is a volunteer? One who comes to help, without being asked to help; one who is self-motivated, inspired, becomes a volunteer.

There is the possibility of the inspirational motivation going down in a volunteer, which could bring frustration.

Usually volunteers come from the space of demand rather than humility – this dilutes the quality.

Another slack that could happen to a volunteer is that they could slip away from commitment, thinking there is no ‘boss’ – "If I like it, I do it; if I don’t like it, I don’t!" It is like the steering wheel of a car – if all the tires say they do not need steering, then the car cannot run smoothly. If you want to construct a building, you have to accept the authority of the structural engineer.

All these can only be overcome by being more grounded in spiritual knowledge. A volunteer devoid of spiritual dimension is utterly weak.

1) A volunteer needs to stick to his commitment.
2) The integrity in a volunteer comes from spiritual practices.
3) The authority needs to be acknowledged.
4) The strength of a volunteer comes from the challenges he is ready to willingly face.
5) A volunteer moves beyond boundaries as he finds he is capable of doing so many things he never ever thought of doing.
6) A true volunteer does not expect appreciation or reward.
7) A volunteer has such a joy – that joy, itself, comes as the reward.
8) If a volunteer thinks he is obliging somebody, he is thoroughly mistaken. He is ‘volunteering’ because he derives so much joy out of it.

The joy is immediate – it does not come on the first of every month in the form of a salary!

When a volunteer realizes this, he is filled with gratitude.

When a volunteer waivers from within, the support system is knowledge and good friends.

News Flash:

In Delhi, Guruji addressed the UN conference on Volunteerism. Then on to Hong Kong, where He gave an inspiring talk at a beautiful satsang in the packed Grand Ballroom of the Sheraton Hotel. Today Guruji blessed the inauguration of the Museum of World Religions in Taipei, Taiwan, in the company of the Taiwanese Prime Minister. The founder of the museum, Zen Master Hsin Tao, came and met with Guruji last night and expressed his gratitude. Tomorrow, Guruji will speak on "The preservation of sacred sites."

Jai Guru Dev

