

Weekly Knowledge #323	
24 Sep 2001	India
WAR: WORST ACT OF REASON

Worst Act of Reason is War.

Every war has a reason, and the reason justifies the war. Those who engage in war, reason it out. But reason is limited. As reason changes, justification falls apart.

All the reasons for every war appear to be justifiable to some limited minds and for limited time. Hence, war becomes inevitable on this planet.

War is limited to human beings. No other species in creation engage in war or mass destruction, as they have no reason. Animals have their prey and let everything just be. But mankind, from time immemorial, has been engaging in war because Man lives on reason. Man gives reason to every act of his and justifies it. As reasons change, his justifications fall apart.

Man has to transcend reason, and only then can he realize the Divinity. Then he does not engage in war. Only when people become sensible, rise above hatred and have heightened consciousness can the war be stopped.

Guruji arrived in Shillong to a tumultuous welcome by the Governor and the Chief Minister. For the first time ever, Shillong witnessed such huge gatherings as the Satsang found thousands rapt in meditation and high in spirit.

In this week alone…

Guruji was the state guest of four different Indian states – Meghalaya, Assam, West Bengal and Tripura! Estimated crowds of over 250,000 people have taken darshan and blessings of Guruji! Estimated crowds of over 35,000 people have done Sudarshan Kriya with Guruji!

At Calcutta, Guruji addressed delegates of the Calcutta Chamber of Commerce with His Holiness the Dalai Lama. The evening Satsang had 30,000 people rapt in meditation and blissfully singing bhajans. Memorable yagnyas were performed at Calcutta and Guwahati for harmony in the world.

Guwahati welcomed Guruji with beautiful Assamese Bihu songs and dance sequences. Guruji emphasized the need to protect the rich and diverse Assamese culture. Thousands braved the rains to be in the evening Satsang. Guruji inaugurated the Sri Sri Ravi Shankar Vidya Mandir (school) at Guwahati by ringing the bell. After a cruise on the river Brahmaputra, the entourage left for Siliguri for less than a 24-hour stay!

Siliguri, a town in the foothill of the Darjeeling, (close to Nepal, Bhutan and Sikkim), celebrated His arrival with all roads leading to the Mega Satsang. Guruji’s entourage had no risk of getting lost, as any resident of the town could guide them to Guruji’s place of residence and Satsang! The Maha Kriya in the morning had thousands doing the Sudarshan Kriya with Guruji, while the Mega Satsang had over 50,000 people singing, dancing and celebrating the grace of Guruji. At Siliguri, Guruji graced the Sri Sri Ravi Shankar Vidya Mandir and inaugurated the Rural Training Centre in the Siliguri Ashram premises. The entourage is now headed to Agartala for the last leg of Guruji’s tour of the North East.

