

Weekly Knowledge #322	
20 Sep 2001	India
REVERENCE AND OWNERSHIP

Often you do not have reverence for that which you own.

Whatever you revere becomes bigger than you.

When you have reverence in all your relationships then your own consciousness expands. Then even small things appear to be significant and big. Every little creature appears to be dignified.

It is the reverence in every relationship that saves the relationship. Often you lose reverence for that which you own, and this happens unconsciously.

When you have reverence for the whole universe, you are in harmony with the while universe. Then, you do not need to reject or renounce anything of this universe.

Reverence in ownership frees you from greed, jealousy and lust. Cultivate the skill of having reverence every moment in your life.

Enroute to Himachal Pradesh, the hill state of India, Guruji had a lively satsang in Delhi. Guruji was accorded a red carpet welcome as the State Guest of Himachal Pradesh at Kalka. After brief satsangs in Purwanoo and Solan, Guruji arrived at Simla, a famous hill station, to a moving traditional welcome with horns, music and dances. At Simla, Guruji addressed the senior bureaucrats of the state government at the state guest house. On the following day was a Maha Kriya and a big satsang attended by thousands.

Onward to Uttar Pradesh, the largest state of India, where Guruji was again invited as a state guest to the state capital Lucknow. He was received there by an enthusiastic crowd of several thousand. His address to the prominent people of Lucknow was laced with wit and humor. Guruji gifted cycles, wheel-chairs and hearing aids to 500 physically-challenged. Several thousand were blissed out in the evening satsang.

Guruji returned to Delhi for yet another blissful satsang with thousands of devotees. Also on the agenda was an inspiring address to over 5,000 village youth at a conference attended by Ms. Uma Bharati, Minister for Youth in India.

It was a whirlwind tour, and it was as if an Art of Living wave swept across all the cities that Guruji visited!

 

