

Weekly Knowledge #346	New Delhi
04 Mar 2002	India
An Awkward Situation

Why do you feel awkward? And how do you get out of it?

If you have always been the center of attention, and are suddenly sidelined, you may feel out of place. Similarly if you have always been on the side lines, and are suddenly pushed to center stage, you may experience restlessness.
If you are used to ordering, and suddenly have to take orders, or, if you usually follow orders, and you are made to give them, you may feel out of place.
A very busy person with nothing to do, or a laid back person who is faced with a lot of responsibilities may experience restlessness.

Very often, feeling out of place blocks the reason and distorts the logic.

If the situation you are in is inevitable, tolerate it.
If it’s avoidable, walk out of it.

If you feel that it can expand your abilities, smile through it.

Every awkward situation increases your comfort zone.
Every awkward situation is a test for how deep you are in the Knowledge.

Love something of an awkward situation. This will increase your comfort zone.
When your comfort zone increases, no one will be able to push your buttons and you will become so centered and unshakable.

News Flash:

From Bangalore to Bihar - the Master's been busy bowling hearts, beautifying interiors, bestowing Grace!

From the moment of His tumultuous arrival, Patna opened its heart out.
The Hathwa Palace brimming over with people, rapturously welcomed Guruji. Evening Satsang was at the Beur Jail where the prisoners had a heart-to-heart chat with Guruji.

Later, hundreds of students had the benefit of an exclusive session with Him. The Maha Satsang saw over a hundred and fifty thousand people, experiencing His electrifying Presence.

The next morning Gurudev left for the village, Massauri, which has been the target of numerous terrorist attacks. Thousands who have benefitted from Navchetna Shibirs (Breath Water Sound Workshops) had been preparing for weeks for His visit. Most villagers shared that it was impossible to leave their homes after dusk because of the very volatile and dangerous situation there, but the Shivirs and Satsangs had transformed their lives.

 

Following the Gujarat tragedy, Guruji has requested that everyone observe 2 minutes of silence on Wednesday the 6th of March 2002, at 9:00 AM local time through out the world for communal peace and harmony and to pay respect to those who have been victims of religious intolerance.

Jai Guru Dev !

