

Weekly Knowledge #359	Washington DC
01 Jul 2002	USA
 

ENTHUSIASM AND DISPASSION

What is enthusiasm? Enthusiasm means to be connected to God within. When you are with your source, you can only be enthusiastic. Apathy is when you are away from the source of life. You cannot be but enthusiastic when your mind is totally in the present moment.

You should know that dispassion is not apathy. It is simply a broader perspective of reality. Dispassion is moving towards the source. Dispassion simply means the way back home. It is the journey towards the source, which is a reservoir of enthusiasm.

When dispassion and enthusiasm co-exist, that is the secret of perennial enthusiasm and profound dispassion. Though they appear to be opposite, they are actually complementary.

*****

*****

News Flash:

An 11th century temple rose from ruins in Guruji’s birthplace of Thayagasamudram thanks to the sole effort of one of our Art of Living teacher, Setu Mamy. Even though about 80 years old, her enthusiasm is that of a teenager. Single-handedly she overcame all hurdles to bring this temple back to life. It was a grand celebration in the village. Guruji promised to build homes for needy people there.

Jai Guru Dev

The 2 Day Guru Purnima Celebration: Guru Purnima, 23rd July 2002 at the Canadian Ashram

Guru Purnima is the day which celebrates the delicate yet powerful bond of divine love between devotee and Master - a day of celebration and gratefulness, silence and grace. Let us all be together on this day.The Celebration will start early on the morning of the 23rd. Please plan to arrive after lunch on the 22nd and depart before lunch on the 24th. Please inform your satsang group, and anyone you know who does not have email or read it regularly. You can also bring your family and friends.

The Registration fee, to cover food and housing, is $108 Can/US per person. If you don’t need lodging, you must still register so we know numbers for food etc. The daily rate outside of the 2 day Guru Purnima Celebration is $45.00. (This daily rate does not include housing. We cannot house you outside of courses, do please make your own arrangements.)

If you are coming at 6pm or later for dinner and satsang only, your donation will be appreciated.

All information regarding transportation, housing and prices are on the form.

To register, please go to esatsang.net, scroll down under "What’s new" for 2 Day GP Registration form

 

The Basic Course during the Guru Purnima Celebrations, 17-22 July 2002 at the Canadian Ashram, St Mathieu du Parc, Quebec

There will be a residential Basic Course at the same time as the GP Advanced Courses. The course will start with Registration from 6-9pm on the 17th, and the course will run until noon on the 22nd. The Course fee is $325 Can/US. If you so wish, you can also choose to stay for the Guru Purnima Celebration on the 23rd July. (See below.)

If you are flying into Montreal Dorval, and need transport to the ashram, please inform us if you would like either the 3 or 6 pm Ashram Shuttle. This will need to be paid for with your course fee.

Please call us at 819 532 3328 or email: artofliving.northamerica.sympatico.ca for the Basic Course form.

