

Weekly Knowledge #45	Bali Cliff Resort
18 Apr 1996	Indonesia
WORDS

 We attach meaning to words and we distort them, too. For example, the word "brainwashing." Like your body, your brain needs washing sometimes. You don't want to walk around with a dirty brain, a dirty mind. What is wrong with the word "brainwashing?" It indicates a clean brain, a clean mind, but it is used in a derogatory manner.

 Like that, the word "disillusionment." It is good that you are disillusioned. You have come to reality. Like purana. It means "that which is new in the town, the most modern." But it is used in the sense of being old. In the course of time, meanings of words change. The word "enthused" comes from the Greek which means "God is with us." Then it came to mean crazy, and now it's changed again.

 Don't be stuck with the words. Your worries are words. Your ideas are words. Wisdom is beyond words. It is the very Being. It is the essence of all words. See and relate beyond words. Then there is no lie in your life.

 If you manipulate words, it is a lie. If you play on words, it is a joke. If you rely on words, it is ignorance. If you transcend words, it is wisdom.

 

NEWS FLASH:

 Guruji was welcomed with the traditional Balinese dance and garlands. Then the press and TV crews invaded the hotel and splashed the news throughout Indonesia. All the press people were put into silent meditation and they came out with big smiles. Now they are arranging courses.

 Everything was magical. A thousand stars reflected over the Indian Ocean and the cliff side pool. Surprisingly, this course did not have chaos! The harmony on the course was so great that the hotel staff spontaneously started observing silence, communicating only through gestures and notes. Mr. and Mrs. Tolani and their whole team did a great job.

 After the farewell dinner outside by the lotus pools, we enjoyed a Balinese dance drama from the Ramayana. Afterwards we had a lively Satsang as drops began to fall from the heavens. Everyone was singing and dancing in the rain with Guruji.

 

