

Weekly Knowledge #47	Bangalore Ashram
02 May 1996	India
SANYAS

 Sanyas means what? I am nothing and I want nothing, or I am everything and I have everything. And Sanyas is being colorless or multicolored. Your association or company can either elevate you or push you down. Company causes first an attraction and then delusion. This keeps your mind swinging between the two extremes and causes love and hatred. With the power of Knowledge and Satsang you can rise above this dilemma.

 

 NEWS SPLASH:

 The skies opened and grace poured down in buckets at the Ashram this week. It was a confluence of eight prominent saints of India who in a private meeting honored Guruji in one of their ashrams. Each of these saints gives lectures or Darshan to hundreds of thousands of devotees and they all run their own schools, hospitals and ashrams. Four of them who were just introduced to Guruji followed us for a brief tour of our Ashram.

 When they were all at Sumeru Mantap, lightening and thunder surrounded us and everyone was drenched and then they ran to Guruji's kutir. Immediately these very popular and formal Sanyasis began to shed their orange garments. But what to give them to wear? Guruji gave them all white dhotis. Soon they were all wearing our Guruji's white dhotis and being fed by his hand looking more and more like a group of joyful children happy to be home again. Somehow in their "new clothes" they began to relax and smile and laugh and soon the grace of our Guru had them radiating from deep inside.

 All of us were shocked to see how the formal heads of institutions were transformed and by the time they were leaving, they humbly asked for Guruji's blessings and invited him to their ashrams and to lead them in meditation. They said, "Mother Nature gave us all a bath before entering your temple, Guruji." We stood and watched this event with awe and laughter.

 The first advanced course has started at the Ashram.

 

Jai Guru Dev

 (Compiled by Raghu and John)

 

 LATE NEWS:

 Guruji took over fifty people to see the night safari in Singapore which is the only night safari in the world. The guide kept saying that our group was unusually lucky because every single animal in the forest came near the tram "to give or take Darshan!" The local people who have been to this place several times were so surprised.

 

