

Weekly Knowledge #53	St. Louis, Missouri
13 Jun 1996	USA
Today marks the one year anniversary of these Knowledge Sheets. The year which started in Big Sur and is ending in St. Louis, began in KNOWLEDGE and is concluding in SEVA. Knowledge Sheets now go to more than 300 Satsang groups touching 7000 people every week around the world!

SEVA IS SAVIOR

 The way to expand from individual to universal consciousness is to share others's sorrow and joy. As you grow, your consciousness should also grow. When you expand in Knowledge with time, then depression is not possible. Your inner most source is joy.

 The way to overcome personal misery is to share universal misery! The way to expand personal joy is to share universal joy. Instead of thinking "what about me?" "what can I gain from this world?" think "what can I do for the world?" When everyone comes from the point of contributing to society, you have a Divine society. We have to educate and culture our individual consciousness in order to expand in time with the Knowledge . . . from "what about me?" to "what can I contribute?"

 If you are not having good experiences in meditation, then do more seva -- you will gain merit and your meditation will be deeper. When you bring some relief or freedom to someone through seva, good vibrations and blessings come to you. Seva brings merit; merit allows you to go deep in meditation; meditation brings back your smile.

 

 Answer to last week's riddle:

 That something which is so precious to you is your smile -- your joy. You lose it in the world and find it in the self, in Satsang. If you can't find it here, at the Ashram, forget about it. Your can't find it anywhere.

 

 NEWS FLASH:

 After a quick two day stopover in Boston with overflowing crowds at Interface and Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, and with lively late night Satsangs, Guruji arrived in Pittsburgh to a packed schedule of household Satsangs, temple visits, two lectures, and a celebration to inaugarate our new Center complete with cake flying in all directions! Guruji caught up on rest and met many new devotees in Cleveland before arriving today in St. Louis.

Jai Guru Dev

