

Weekly Knowledge #55	Canadian Ashram
26 Jun 1996	Canada
JUDGEMENTS AND GOOD COMPANY

Though you have heard "don't judge," judgement comes unavoidably in day-to-day life. By the actions and behaviors of people, you either approve or disapprove. But always remember that everything is changing, and do not hold onto the judgement. Otherwise your judgement gets solidified like a rock. It brings misery for you and for others.

If judgements are lighter like air, like a breeze, they bring in fragrance, then move away. They could bring a foul smell, then move away. They should not stay there forever.

Judgements are so subtle that you are not even aware of their existence. Judging or labeling someone as judgmental is also a judgement. Only in the state of Being when you are full of love and compassion can you ever be free from all judgements.

Yet the world cannot move without judgements. Until you judge something as good or bad, you cannot do any actions. If you see rotten apples in the market, you say, "No good." Good ones you buy. If someone lies to you ten times, you think next time it also could be a lie. A judgment happens automatically.

See the possibility that people and things can change at any time and don't hold onto the judgements.

You need to judge your company. Your company can pull you up or pull you down. The company that drags you towards doubt, dejection, blame, complaints, anger, delusion, and desires is bad company. The company that pulls you up towards joy, enthusiasm, service, love, trust, and Knowledge is good company.

When someone complains, first you listen, then you nod, then you sympathize, then you complain.

Robert says, "Join the party." Denise says, "I confess, you are absolutely right." (Laughter)

Your company can create Hell for you in Heaven -- or Heaven for you in Hell. Judge for yourself . . . !

 The Circus goes to Ottawa:

 Enthusiastic Suzannah and party had organized a hall at the palatial Chateau Laurier. There was Guruji, sitting on his beautifully decorated seat next to a huge pile of super-sized bananas. In the darshan line he had to hand out over 300 bananas, one by one, like a banana vendor. There were piles of bananas everywhere.

 Guruji said, "Let's all close the eyes and meditate," and everyone was sitting there peeling their bananas. Denise got stuck with her banana peel. She didn't know what to do with it. She (and everyone else) ended up meditating while holding their banana or banana peel like some kind of religious ceremony.

Thanks to Janice, the Ayurvedic Course at the Ashram was a great success. The celebration continues in Montreal . . .

Jai Guru Dev

 

