

Weekly Knowledge #65	Bangalore Ashram
05 Sep 1996	India
WHETHER YOU WIN OR LOSE

After the Satsang a small group of about 150 people met with Guruji and were playing with the words and arguing with him and telling him how mean he is that he doesn't spend much time with them and yet has stolen their hearts. Guruji kept winning by twisting their arguments and people laughed like anything.

Guruji: Whether you win or lose an argument with me you are still laughing. Why?

Because there is total sense of belongingness. When there is a total sense of belongingness, real play happens. Winning or losing is irrelevant.

Normally what happens to you when you lose an argument? You are sad and upset, hurt and angry. But when you lose or win an argument with me you are still happy. How come?

1. There is a sense of belongingness.

2. Your love stands out and everything else becomes secondary. Like perfection, comfort,

desires, etc. Isn't it?

3. Your ability to put the "Being" before the happening.

4. And your confidence in the ultimate good.

CanҴ you have this same attitude with everyone?

Today is Krishna's birthday. Krishna's life was full of conflicts and yet he kept smiling and dancing. May you dance through the conflicts and contribute to this planet.

NEWS FLASH

Bombay was in a hot mood for a wild Satsang but in cool weather! Then on to Surat which was hectic. The spectacular decorations and the vibrant Satsangs thrilled the thousands who gathered to get a glimpse of Guruji. The next morning in Baroda, Guruji addressed a rapt audience of 700 senior executives. In the evening Satsang the assembly hall of the palace of Baroda was an apt royal setting. Thanks to Kartik for setting up closed circuit TVs -- the overflowing crowd did not feel lost.

Even a curious ant could not walk into the jam-packed Satsang in Ahmedabad as thousands basked in devotion and Knowledge, and Guruji stood up majestically to address them -- what a space!

Today is Krishna's birthday and all planes are leading to Bangalore.

 

Jai Guru Dev

