

Weekly Knowledge #68	Bangalore Ashram
25 Sep 1996	India
WHICH IS MORE EXPENSIVE - YOUR SMILE OR YOUR ANGER?

Mahesh: Do you get angry? If so, how often?

Guruji: I can but it's very expensive.

Usually, you give your anger freely and smile rarely as though a smile is costly. In ignorance, anger is cheaper and a smile is costly. In Knowledge, a smile is free like sun, air, and water and anger is extremely expensive like a diamond.

Conclusion: Make your Smile cheaper and anger expensive.

NEWS FLASH

After a busy course schedule in the Ashram, Bangalore, Guruji addressed a large group of professionals and industrialists in Rajkot followed by an enthusiastic Satsang of more than 3000 devotees. Decorations and the organization and spirit of the enthusiastic crowd set an example. Guruji left for an advanced course of nearly 700 participants in Koijavaran, Baroda.

P.S. Although the Knowledge Sheet was prepared on time last week there was a delay in sending it and this brought up an interesting fax from Ottawa, Canada which is enclosed here as a supplement:

Thank you for this week's very eloquent Knowledge Fax. We continue to ponder its meaning. In deciphering its meaning we rely on clues that you have given previously. You have said, "I am always talking to you. You only have to look for a sign."

We recognize that many people will say, "There was no Knowledge Fax this week." Of course, they are mistaken. Some people will say, "The Guru finally missed a deadline. Of course, He is just human, like everyone else. He probably ran out of things to say, got tired. Maybe there was no computer nearby. Maybe he called in sick." Some people, asleep, may not have noticed.

However, knowing that the Guru is communicating even when He says nothing at all, we seek the deeper meaning of the week's Knowledge Sheet or Nonsheet. Let us simply say, We seek the deeper meaning of this week's Sandesh.

Option 1: It is all changing

Everything is changing. Nothing stays for all time. "Life is teaching us, at every moment, the art of letting go." Even Knowledge Faxes will not be there for ever. Letting Go. Ultimately we must let go of even the Knowledge as object, as something "out there."

Option 2. I am the Knowledge

Living the knowledge, becoming the knowledge. That is what we must aspire to. The Knowledge Fax is not just a piece of paper, a bit of amusement each week, which titillates the intellect and which we promptly forget, and go about our meaningless and mundane lives.

Sub-Option 2.1. "Enough Knowledge has been given. Digest that."

We must assimilate the Knowledge that has already been given, make it a part of us. There is a rhythm in all things. The cycle of the year goes around again. The cycle of the Knowledge as well. Let us remember and re-learn the knowledge given in the previous cycle.

Option 3. Grace and Gratitude

"To those who have, more will be given. To those who have not, even what little they have will be taken away from them. "

How much gratitude have we had for the Knowledge that has been given each week? How much have we valued the Knowledge Faxes? How much awareness, how much attention have we put on them? Have they become just another routine, something else to take for granted? Wherever we put our attention, that will increase. Have we not put enough attention on the Knowledge Sheets each week?

Option 4. Silence

Truth is beyond words. Therefore whatever we speak is false. Only in silence can we know the Truth. Only in silence can we be the Truth.

Meditate. Be silent. Know thy Self.

Option 5. The Unbaked Pot

When you pour water into an unbaked pot, the water is wasted, and so is the pot. Before you put water into a pot, you should bake the pot. The Guru is now baking all the pots. When they are baked, then he will be able to fill them with the water of Knowledge. But for now, why waste all that good water?

Objection: But how can the pots be baked without the Fire of Knowledge?

This is a very good point. I suppose there are other fires. The fire of criticism and humiliation; the fire of hunger; the fire of lust; the fire of longing; the physical fire of heat. You should ask the Guru to speak on the five fires.

Option 6. The Answer to Last Week's Non-riddle

Look for the meaning hidden in all the events. And a non-event is also an event. There was a "sandesh" contained within the box of Sandesh sweets given to the Guru last week. Similarly, what is the meaning hidden in this week's non-fax?

"Let those who have ears hear." Hearing the silence. This is what we must do.

Option 7. Just Testing

The Guru is testing our level of dismay at not receiving a fax this week. It seems that the level of dismay was appropriately high, as it now appears a fax has indeed been sent, albeit belatedly. (I just called Bill Hayden. Poor Bill. Apparently a good proportion of the people on the continent also called him.)

So what to read into this? Possibility: The Guru is soft-hearted, he cannot bear our disappointment. Or: The Guru is disappointed. We did not receive the silent fax he sent; so he was obliged to send a fax containing words. Or: The Guru is pleased. Our collective dismay at not receiving a fax this week proved to him that we do deeply value the Knowledge given each week and we are extremely grateful or ? ? ?

Jai Guru Dev

P.P.S. The above Knowledge Fax Supplement was sent by Susannah and the Ottawa Satsang group on 21st September regarding Knowledge Fax #67.

Jai Guru Dev

(Compiled by Ajay)

