

Weekly Knowledge #94	Rishikesh
26 Mar 1997	India
SIMPLE OR COMPLEX?

Life is utterly simple and yet most complex. You have to simultaneously attend to both facets of life. When life appears most complex, turn to the simplicity. Simplicity brings peace. When you are peaceful attend to the complexity within you. That will make you more skillful.

If you are only with simplicity, it makes you lazy and dull. Being only with complexity makes you angry and frustrated. The intelligent ones balance them and rejoice in both. If you look only to simplicity, growth is not there. Looking only at the complexity, there is no life at all. All that you need is a skillful balance. If you recognize both simplicity and complexity of life, you will be skillfully peaceful!

Colors are the complexity of life. White is the simplicity. When your heart is pure, your life becomes so colorful.

Vikram: Guruji, you are all white and yet so colorful.

Pramila: Like our knowledge, which is so profound and yet so simple!

Jai Guru Dev

News Flash:

The Indian teacherҳ meeting was inspiring. Almost every teacher reported miraculous experiences that they and their students have had. This is giving rise to a new book "The Master as I know Him" written collectively by teachers and old timers.

Holi is the festival of colors during the full moon. The already jubiliant participants went on a color rampage which ended with a mass dip in the Ganges at sunset.

More than 600 people have gathered for the first Advance Course. The joyful and celebrative crowd is one of a kind!

NEWS FLASH

The Indian teacher's meeting was inspiring. Almost every teacher reported miraculous experiences that they and their students have had. This is giving rise to a new book "The Master as I know Him" written collectively by teachers and old timers.

Holi is the festival of colors during the full moon. The already jubiliant participants went on a color rampage which ended with a mass dip in the Ganges at sunset.

More than 600 people have gathered for the first Advance Course. The joyful and celebrative crowd is one of a kind!

