

Weekly Knowledge #98	Banglore Ashram
24 Apr 1997	India
THREE KINDS OF LOVE

There are three kinds of Love. The Love that comes out of Charm, that which comes out of comfort, and the Divine Love. Do you see what I am saying?

The love that comes out of charm does not last long. It comes out of unfamiliarity or out

of attraction. In this you lose the attraction fast, and boredom sets in, like most love marriages. This love may diminish and bring along with it fear, uncertainty, insecurity, and sadness.

The Love that comes out of comfort and familiarity grows. But this Love has no thrill, no enthusiasm, joy, or fire to it. For example, you are more comfortable with an old friend who is a familiar person, rather than with a new person.

The Divine Love supersedes both the above. The Divine Love has ever newness. The closer you go, there is more charm and depth. The Divine Love has comfort, enthusiasm, and familiarity. There is never boredom and it keeps everyone on their toes.

Worldly love can be like an ocean, yet an ocean has a bottom. The Divine Love is like the sky which is limitless, infinite. From the bottom of the Ocean, soar into the vast sky.

Anything more about Divine Love? Refer to our Bhakti Sutras.

NEWS FLASH:

During a visit to Adichunchunagiri Ashram, Guruji said that this devotees are waiting for him and he must return soon. "No, let them wait. Waiting for the Guru is tapas (penance). Waiting for the world is tapa (torture)," replied the Swamiji of that ashram.

In the northeastern region at Guwahati, the jubilant crowd of the generally conservative and closed society turned limitlessly wild. An elaborate banquet for 1500 devotees followed the Satsang. Four buses and twelve cars with 180 devotees, left for Shillong, the Meghalayan Capital also called "The Scotland of the East." En route, the devotees stopped for a picnic on the banks of a large lake and for rides on a speed boat. All the satsangees of Shillong behaved like an old bunch, though they were meeting Guruji for the first time. On his return, Calcutta had a Mega Satsang in the Science city auditorium.

P.S. Guruji has now arrived in Bangalore. Sukha Nadi (5,000 year old palm leaf scripture) mentioned Guruji's name and that he is the incarnation of Lord Krishna. There is a temple of Mother Divine 300 km from the Ashram. The idol of this deity writes and answers questions of devotees. This deity visited our Ashram and She "wrote" that she was extremely happy about the work of our Ashram. She also "wrote" that the spirits of both Lord Krishna and the Mother Divine reside in Guruji. She also "wrote" that all Guruji's devotees are in the most right path and are peaceful, calm, and settled.

Jai Guru Dev

(Compiled by Raghu and Vinod)

