

Weekly Knowledge #103	Marseilles
28 May 1997	France
THE WAY OUT OF SORROW

If your are unhappy you better check if one or all of these are lacking: Tapa (penance), Vairagya (dispassion), Sharanagati (surrender).

- Tapas is agreeing with the moment, total acceptance of pleasant or unpleasant situations.

- Vairagya means I want nothing and I am nothing.

- Sharanagati is "I am here for You, for Your joy."

If you are grumbling then these are lacking, because when you accept the situation you cannot grumble; when you take it as Tapa you will not grumble; when you come from a state dispassion ("I don't want anything") you don't grumble; and if you are surrendered you will have no complaints.

All these three (Tapas, Vairagya and surrender) purify your mind and uplift you in joy.

If you donҴ do it willingly you will do it in desperation. First you say, "Nothing can be done." Then in anger and desperation you say, "I give up, I want nothing, I have no choice, to hell with it!"

NEWS FLASH:

On Buddha Purnima, Guruji was engrossed in singing a new bhajan and did not go to the lecture in Innsbruck. Though the next day he surprised the unhappy organizer and made her happy.

Pais talk had a full house and sent a big wave of enthusiasm all over France.

Three cars and a bus left on Tour de France for ten major cities.

Jai Guru Dev

Vince Gentiluomo is heading up the India Ashram Project for which he is organizing for people to buy their very own Kutir at the Ashram for courses, retirement or whatever. He can be reached in Cleveland, Ohio at 216-473-4212 or fax at 216-473-9973.

Carla Riechman (our Dollar a Day manager) has gotten a good response for Guruji's birthday present of sponsored children at His beloved Ashram. Please contact her at 301-588-6422 or laughter@his.com to learn more about this wonderful program and how your community can be a part of His birthday present. We will present this gift to Him at the Gurupurnima celebration.

Please note the wonderful children and teenager programs that are available for the first time at this summer's advanced courses.

