

Weekly Knowledge #125	Rishikesh
30 Oct 1997	India
DIWALI

Time and space are infinite. Grains of sand are countless. Atoms in the universe are innumerable. So also the stars, the galaxies. The same is with the life on this planet. Neither is there a beginning nor is there an end, because it is all spherical. A sphere has neither a beginning nor an end, nor a goal, nor a direction. Truth has no direction, no goal. Truth itself is the goal and truth is infinite.

Feeling or experiencing the infinity within this finite body, living the timelessness within the time span of life, uncovering the bliss within the misery. This is what you are here for.

Today is Diwali - the Festival of Lights. The streets and buildings are lit up with colorful lights. The four aspects of Diwali:

1. The lights: Symbolic of spreading the Knowledge.

2. Fire crackers: When the explosion happens outside, the explosion inside is diffused.

3. Gift exchange and distribution of sweets: Sweets dispel the bitterness and renew the friendship.

4. Feeling abundance: Brings awareness and gratefulness for what one has.

When true wisdom dawns, it gives rise to celebration, and in celebration you may lose focus or awareness. The ancient rishis knew this so to maintain awareness in the midst of gaiety of celebration, they brought sacredness and puja to every celebration.

Celebrate the Knowledge and feel the abundance, for "those who have will be given more"!

NEWS FLASH After the trip to Shimoga, the Ashram hosted a Family Day for local course graduates while their guests were introduced to the Knowledge and programs. A Maha Kriya was held for 2,000. Lunch served to 4,000 without a hitch was a marvel to behold, and volunteers were jumping and dancing by the end of the day.

After Satsang in Pune, crowds crushed onto the stage for Darshan with Guruji, while volunteers were busy controlling the ever-enthusiastic crowd. The thousands of pairs of neatly packaged and numbered shoes in the entry way got into disarray in the chaos which followed. Many people lost their shoes but they were too happy to care.

The next morning, in spite of it's being a peak-season Diwali business day, 1,800 course graduates joined Guruji for Satsang.

Coincidentally, on this day of Diwali festival, 60 blind women are beginning a week-long residential course at the Bangalore Ashram.

Jai Guru Dev

 

