

Weekly Knowledge #137	Williams Island,Florida
21 Jan 1998	U.S.A
Neither Accept People As They Are

Not Tolerate Them

Many people think tolerance is a virtue.

Tolerance is a negative term. If you like something you don't have to tolerate. Tolerance indicates a deep sense of dislike, which can at any time turn into hatred. It indicates a sense of separateness . . small mindedness . . limitation of consciousness.

When you are tolerating, it is a temporary state. Tolerance is a potential volcano. If you are tolerating it means you are holding on.

Acceptance is also negative. You accept that which is not lovable.

Question: Don't you need a sense of self-assurance to then go and love people?

This is our company. The Self-Assurance Company. It is only the Self that is always assuring. Nothing else.

Tolerance and acceptance come with judgment and separation. These words which are used, tolerance and acceptance are thought to be positive. I say they are not.

Question: But aren't we supposed to accept people as they are?

If you don't love them, then you have to accept them.

DON'T ACCEPT PEOPLE AS THEY ARE. JUST LOVE THEM AS THEY ARE.

NEWS FLASH: From Surinam the entourage moved on to Bogota, the capital of Columbia where Guruji was interviewed for national television. After the interview, the lady said she has to change her whole series which was entitled "Tolerance." Organizers were bewildered as they were unprepared for such a huge crowds at the evening talk. Then Guruji moved on to Panama where a minute-by-minute program was put together by Martine and her team. The celebration moved on to Costa Rica for a day where, in contrast, the hall had enough space for three seats for each person. Satsangs were just a dozen devotees and Guruji fed them all. Then on to Florida where Guruji commented from the beautiful space on the 28th floor, "I am staying in the second best place, the first being my Self!" Then Ronnie Newman had organized a talk sponsored by the Crime Prevention Unit of Nova Southeastern University. It was attended by scientist, researchers, therapists, and justice personnel. It was fabulous!

Jai Guru Dev

