

Weekly Knowledge #142	Banglore Ashram
24 Feb 1998	India
Mahashivaratri

The whole world functions according to laws of Nature. What is that? That is Shiva.

The whole world is moving in an auspicious rhythm of innocence and intelligence. That auspiciousness is divinity. Shiva is harmonious innocence which knows no control.

Shiva reversed is Vashi. Vashi means control. Control is of the mind. Control means two, weakness. One is not doing something naturally but exerting pressure. Often people think they are in control of their lives, their situation. Control is an illusion. Control is a temporary exertion of energy in the mind. That is Vashi.

Shiva is opposite. Shiva is the permanent and eternal source of Energy, the eternal state of Being, the One without a second.

Duality is the cause of fear. That harmonious innocence dissolves duality.

When the moment is whole, complete, then that moment is Divine. In the moment means no regret of the past, no want for the future. Time stops, the mind stops.

NEWS FLASH The Conference of the International Association for Human Values continues. The Ayurvedic Clinic is dispensing knowledge and remedies day and night. Live performances of traditional Vedic arts including a sitar recital, an evening of mohiniattam dance, and bamboo flute, each held under Sumeru's starry canopy, delighted all. Delegates traveled to Mysore where they visited the famed Palace, the Shiva Temple, and Brindavana Gardens. Warming up for Shivaratri, delegates and visitors from throughout the world were treated to a Festival of Foods, with delicacies from many states of India. Today, the Celebration dawned early with the silent power of Shiva Puja and is continuing into tomorrow's early morning with singing, ecstatic dancing and waves of unbounded enthusiasm.

 

Jai Guru Dev

(Compiled by Nancie D., John O., Marcy J., and David B.)

SPECIAL NOTE:

Since 1993 the Prison SMART Foundation has been teaching angry, troubled, stressed and drug-dependent individuals to take control of their lives and regain their self-worth. We have provided them with self-sufficient techniques to manage their challenges. While primarily this has been for prisons, Prison SMART has also developed programs for at-risk youth, the victims of crime, and law enforcement. Your support is welcome. We are beginning to expand our work with gangs from Los Angeles. The Prison SMART Foundations wishes to thank everyone in the Art of Living for their past support. To find out more write to Box 3642, Boulder CO, 80303 or to Prisonsmart@compuserve.com.

