

Weekly Knowledge #146	Lake Side,Chandigarh
26 Mar 1998	India
Dreams

When something is unbelievably beautiful or joyful, you wonder whether it is a dream. Often, what you perceive as reality is not joyful and so when misery is there, you never wonder if it is a dream. You are sure it is real. This is knowing the real as unreal and unreal as real. In fact, all the miseries are unreal. A wise man knows that happiness is real, as it is one's very nature. Unhappiness is unreal as it is inflicted by memory. When you see everything as a dream, then you abide in your true nature.

Payal asks : "What about a nightmare?"

Sri Sri : A nightmare is a dream mistaken as reality. There is no confusion in a dream at all. Keep wondering whether all this is a dream and you'll wake up to the real.

NEWS FLASH

In Rishikesh, the Advanced course, Teachers Training and the Art Excel courses came to an end amidst lot of jubilation...!!! Lots of healing experiences were shared. The last days, Satsang was graced by the Saints from the neighbouring Ashrams. From Rishikesh, Guruji and the entourage left for Chandigarh. The trip was full of Sri Sri's mischief. On the way, the entourage stopped at the Sikh holy shrine - Paonta Sahib. An enthusiastic Chadigarh team received the entourage past midnight. More than seven thousand people were totally enraptured at the Satsang on the following day. On to Shimla.......

Jai Gurudev !

News Flash!
In Rishikesh, the Advanced course, Teachers Training and the Art Excel courses came to an end amidst lot of jubilation...!!! Lots of healing experiences were shared. The last days, Satsang was graced by the Saints from the neighbouring Ashrams. From Rishikesh, Guruji and the entourage left for Chandigarh. The trip was full of Sri Sri's mischief. On the way, the entourage stopped at the Sikh holy shrine - Paonta Sahib. An enthusiastic Chadigarh team received the entourage past midnight. More than seven thousand people were totally enraptured at the Satsang on the following day. On to Shimla.......

Jai Gurudev !

