

Weekly Knowledge #163	Highway 25 Between Boulder and Denver, Colorado
23 Jul 1998	USA
Do You Know I Have No Mercy?

Mercy indicates lack of intimacy. Indicates a distance; a lack of belongingness. You don't have mercy on your near and dear ones. You don't hear parents say, "l have mercy on my children." You have mercy on those who you think are not yours. Mercy indicates anger, judgment and authority. When you ask for mercy, you are self- centered. You want to be excused from the law of cause and effect. It also indicates lack of courage and valor.

At times mercy is an impediment to growth. Mercy, of course, brings some comfort and relief; but can impair the process of transformation. If the leaves were to ask for mercy from falling, they would not be transformed.

If someone is driving and is tired, they will stop at the rest area. But if they start living there, they will be arrested (laughter). Then the spot has not served its purpose.

Patti and Victoria, high on bliss, did not stop at the stop sign and the police mercilessly gave them a ticket (in India-memo). Do you know what? Victoria said, "Thank you." But the police woman told her to go to court and ask for mercy! (laughter)

When you know and trust the process of creation, you will simply rejoice. It is the small mind which superimposes its nature on the Divine mind. Only when you made a mistake and you think God is angry and judging you do you ever ask for mercy. The Divine is all knowing and all loving; there is no chance for mercy.

Do you know I have no mercy? When there is intimacy there is no place for mercy.

Satsang Program: Chant twelve minutes "Om Namo Bhagavate" and three minutes "Guru Om" at the weekly Satsang followed by short meditation.

NEWS FLASH: As the summer tour moved to the San Francisco Bay area the talks were sold out in advance and the crowds were swept away with knowledge and grace. Sri Sri visited "The Mystery Spot" and of course solved the mysteries. Three cities in Colorado followed with more standing room only crowds and joyous Satsangs. Record high temperatures followed the entourage as well as record high bliss. Montreal is next.

JAl GURU DEV

