

Weekly Knowledge #165	Europeon Akademie,Bad Antogast
04 Aug 1998	Germany
LOYALTY

Loyalty is the way in which a mature and integrated mind behaves. Loyalty indicates undivided wholeness of consciousness and shows richness of the mind. When the mind is not integrated it is feverish, disloyal and opportunistic. Disloyalty comes out of opportunism. Opportunism is short-sightedness of one's destiny. Integrity or wholeness is essential to be healthy. A divided mind will gradually lead to schizophrenia and other physical and mental disorders. Loyalty is a real strength and will have the support of nature in the long run.

Fear and ambitions are impediments to loyalty. Loyalty is needed both in the material and spiritual plane. Either to destroy, create or maintain any institution, group or society, loyalty is essential.

Loyalty means believing in the continuity of commitment. Honouring commitment is loyalty. It takes you beyond the duality of craving and aversion.

Responsibility, dedication, commitment are the limbs of loyalty.

A loyal mind is a 'yes'-mind. The purpose of asking questions is to get an answer. The purpose of all answers is to create a ...'yes'.... 'Yes' is an acknowledgement of knowledge. The 'yes'-mind is a quiet, holistic and joyful mind. The 'no'-mind is a agitated, doubting and miserable mind. Loyalty begins with a 'yes'-mind and starts to perish with a 'no'-mind.



NEWS FLASH !

CANADIAN ASHRAM SEVA ADVANCED COURSE

There will be an advanced seva course at our ashram in Quebec beginning August 22-28/ August 29 - September 4 / September 5-12.

The program will include Kriya, Hollow and Empty, and 7 hours of SEVA per day. The price of the course is $100.00USD for the entire week. Guruji invites everyone willing to help on construction to come and take this course. The goal is to complete the new residence for this fall.

Please contact the ashram at (819) 532-3328 or fax at (819) 532-2033 or e-mail at artofliving.northamerica@sympatico.ca

 

JAl GURU DEV

