

Weekly Knowledge #185	Bad Antogast Ashram
30 Dec 1998	Germany
RECYCLING and HYGIENE

Everything here is recycled. The earth is 200 million years old - the Alps, the water, the air. Billions of people have breathed the same air. All the particles in your body are old, you are recycled. Your thoughts and emotions are recycled, mind is recycled. You are a recycled person.

Everything here is recycled. Consciousness is recycled - its the same old consciousness. Remind yourself that everything here is recycled material - so relax! Everything goes to where it came from. Recycling brings back purity and hygiene. Knowledge recycles the mind.

Tarah says	
:
Recycling makes everything new and therefore a mind that is recycled by knowledge finds everything fresh.
Knowledge keeps everything fresh. That is why you can keep recycling the same creation. A mind in Knowledge finds everything fresh. If you dont put Knowledge to the mind, the mind gets rotten. Knowledge brings the mind back to purity. Recycling brings purity and hygiene.

Hygiene supports health, and too much hygiene destroys health. In a too hygienic situation the immune system in the body becomes like lazy, unequipped soldiers. People who live in slums often dont get sick, because their immune system becomes like a well-trained soldier. Often people who are too fussy about hygiene have poor health. Sometimes unhygienic conditions create health. It keeps your immune system active, alive and strong, while Knowledge keeps your mind fresh.

NEWS FLASH !

After a grand satsang in Madras the group went to the Chidambaram temple, the place of the cosmic dance of SHIVA. Then on to the temple town of Kumbakonam for a big satsang, also known as the seat of Vedic knowledge, where Guruji honored many Vedic pundits and meditations were held in many ancient temples. Then the satsang army marched on to Papanasam, Guruji's birthplace, where everyone played in the water - shooting missiles of bliss. Then on to Trichy for an invigorating satsang. People were well fed up in the temples. In spite of the tour being hectic the whole group of 80 was so energetic and enthusiastic. Guruji was received by the temple authorities at the Sri Rangam temple and honored by the pontiff of the Vaishnava tradition, who was visibly moved. Then the troupe moved on to Madhurai where the elephants garlanded Guruji to the beat of the drums on the premises of the famous Minakshi temple, for a jubilant satsang with more than 8000 people who were spell-bound in a great meditation. Next morning the entire town of Rajapalayam celebrated a long awaited (seven years) satsang with Guruji. Before noon the group left for Udimalpet where many seva projects had been launched. Again a big satsang with several 1000 people. The next morning there was a live kriya and satsang for about 2500 people and the group went to Pollachi for the grand, final satsang of the tour. Then the caravan of buses and cars left for Bangalore and Guruji left for Madras, where a gentlemen came to meet him with an ancient, 5000 year old palm leaf script which mentioned the name of Guruji, and the immense grace that flows through him and protects and transforms the life of millions. Then Guruji came to the European ashram Bad Antogast in Germany. Several advanced courses and seva projects are happening around the world this week - as usual - not to mention the joy and celebration.

The message for the New Year:
Be in touch with the source and make your life a celebration!

 

JAl GURU DEV

 

