

Weekly Knowledge #183	Bangalore Ashram
10 Dec 1998	India
Uncertainty

You can be at ease with the uncertainty of the world when you realise the certainty of the consciousness. Often people do just the opposite. They are certain about the things in the world and uncertain about God. They rely on something that is not reliable and get upset. Uncertainty causes craving for stability and the most stable thing in the universe is our Self.

The world is of change, the Self is of non-change. You have to rely on the non-change and accept the change. If you are certain that everything is uncertain, then you are liberated. When you are uncertain in ignorance then you become worried and tense. Uncertainty with awareness brings higher states of consciousness and a smile.

Bharat says: A certain smile!!!

Often people think that certainty is freedom. If you feel that freedom when you are not certain then that is 'real' freedom. Often your certainty or uncertainty is based on the relative world. To be certain about the uncertainty of the relative, makes you certain about the existence of the absolute and brings a 'certain' faith in the absolute. Nitin says: Yes, to understand this you certainly need to have awareness!!!

Question	
:
Can we still be enthusiastic when we are uncertain?
Sri Sri	
:
Yes, in knowledge you can be enthusiastic in uncertainty. Often people who are uncertain dont act, they simply sit and wait. Acting in uncertainty makes life a game, a challenge. Being in uncertainty is letting go. Certainty about the relative world creates dullness. Uncertainty about the Self creates fear. Uncertainty about matter brings certainty about consciousness.
 	 
 	 
 	 
 

NNEWS FLASH !

In Cochin, by the ocean, a grand open-air satsang of over twelve thousand had a full moon shining on the sea of devotees. The next day, Kollam, the cashew hub of India, saw thousands flock to the noontime Satsang in spite of it being a working day. Then the party zone moved to Trivandrum the capital of Kerala where Sri Sri was welcomed with caparisoned elephants, umbrellas and deepa balikas (girls holding lamps) and the King. Over fifteen thousand people were present and yet there was pindrop silence during meditation. The program was telecast live. Then onto Varkala for a morning satsang enroute to Kanyakumari the southernmost tip of India where the three seas meet. The next day the entire town of Udayankulangara celebrated Guruji's brief stopover and a feast was arranged for the entire township. A very famous painter who was making a portrait of Sri Sri for a billboard felt strong currents in his body as he was giving the finishing touches and started crying. He has joined the next Basic course. All the teachers are busy with hundreds taking the course. Throughout Kerala there were arches built welcoming Guruji. Our devotees and the District Administrator took the task of cleaning Ambaji, a pilgrimage center of Gujarat.

JAl GURU DEV

 

