

Weekly Knowledge #200	Apple Valley, California
21 Apr 1999	United States
THE NOISE OF NON-VIOLENCE

Often violence comes with noise. Non-violence happens in silence. People who are violent make huge noise; they make it  known.  People who are non-violent are quiet. But the time has come for people who are non-violent to make noise so that the violence will quiet down. The message of non-violence has to come loud and clear so that it can be heard from a young age.

A sense of shame has to be connected with anger and violence. The reason for violence in young people is a sense of pride in anger and violence, not a sense of shame. People feel proud that they are violent or angry. They think it is prestigious or a status symbol to be aggressive. Aggression is not thought to be a quality to be ashamed of. This promotes aggression and violence in the whole society, and when aggression and violence are promoted, human values diminish. Some movies and modern music glorify frustration, anger and revenge and make these a role model for children.

We need to promote human values especially love compassion and belongingness loud and clear. Speak to groups or through your local media in the newspaper and on TV and create as many Art Excel and Art of Living courses in your area as possible.

David asks	
:
"If people are ashamed to be angry, won't that keep them unnatural and set up resistance in them that will persist?"

 	 
Sri Sri	
:
"If they are not ashamed, they will feel a free license to get angry and violent. Sometimes resistance is a good thing (Like resistance to disease or resistance to bad habits)."
 	 
 

 

 

 

NEWS FLASH: Sri Sri continued on from Kauai, Hawaii to the Island of Oahu, Hawaii where an advanced course, public Satsangs and meetings with government leaders awaited Him. The Hawaiian Prison Smart program continues to flourish and other new programs for government agencies are being planned. Sri Sri spoke at a luncheon honoring volunteer service leaders, was interviewed on NBC-TV and was invited to speak at a youth conference with delegates from over 100 countries. The traveling Satsang then made its way to the mainland and a warm welcome from our Art of Living community in Apple Valley, California.

JAl GURU DEV

