

Weekly Knowledge #201	Santa Barbara, California
28 Apr 1999	USA
LIFE IS TOO SHORT
LIFE IS ETERNAL

The realization that life is very short brings dynamism in your life. Unwanted things will fall off as well as distractions. When you have to be acting or putting out effort, know that life is short. When you are expecting a result, then you are often frustrated. The ignorant person does it the other way: He hurries for the result and is impatient. Impatience goes away when you know that life is eternal. When you are looking for a return of a favor from someone or a result from your good deed, you want it quickly. When you realize life is short, procrastination falls away. But when you know that there are many lifetimes, you realize that if you don't get it sooner, you get it later. Wake up and see your life is too short. Time is running so what are you doing with your life? Is it being useful to you and the world around you? Realize life is too short. WAKE UP! LIFE IS ETERNAL!


When you want to enjoy the fruit of action know that life is eternal. When it comes to hope, you should know that there are many lifetimes. When you are looking for results, know that time is eternal. If someone doesn't thank you or takes advantage of you, thank them because they will pay you back later with interest. So no one needs to feel sorry that they have been taken advantage of or unappreciated. Know that they will have to be paying you back in the future with interest! When it comes to enjoying the fruit of your actions, good deeds or even blessings, know that life is eternal. Anytime that you are in a hurry, you cannot enjoy. So know that life is eternal.

 

NEWS FLASH: In addition to the jubilee and satsangs in Apple Valley, Los Angeles, Santa Barbara, Monterey, Berkeley and and San Jose, Guruji spoke on human values in the 20th century at the University of California in Santa Barbara. A new initiative to promote Art Excel in high schools and colleges throughout the USA has begun. New schools sponsored by the Art of Living in tribal areas in Bihar, India have been inaugurated with 90 students. Volunteers interested in promoting the Art Excel project can send your bio-data to the Art Excel coordinator care of your national office.

JAl GURU DEV

