

Weekly Knowledge #229	Indore
26 Nov 1999	India
Aggression as a means to overcome depression

Lack of idealism is the main cause of depression among the youth today. Life appears to be so meaningless to these children, who are either too scared of the competitive world or bogged down by heavy stimuli. They need an inspiration....
And Spirituality is that inspiration that can keep the spirit up!

Aggression is the antidote to depression.
Depression sets in if there is a lack of zeal to fight.

Depression is lack of energy, and anger and aggression are a bolt of energy.
When Arjuna was depressed, Krishna inspired him to fight and thus reinstated life back in Arjuna. If you are depressed, don't take Prozac - just fight - for any cause!

If aggression crosses a certain limit it leads you back into depression. That's what happened with King Ashoka, who won the Kalinga war but became depressed. He had to take refuge in Buddha.

WISE ARE THOSE WHO DO NOT FALL EITHER INTO AGGRESSION OR DEPRESSION.

That's the golden line of a Yogi.
Just wake up and acknowledge you are a Yogi!



 

NEWS FLASH

The two Advanced courses in Rishikesh were simply out of this world. Guruji flew for a day to Bangalore for the memorial service of His most beloved Amma. People had come from from all parts of India to pay homage to the great lady who gave Guruji to this world. Guruji did Aarti to Amma's portrait, singing the same song that Amma used to sing when she did Aarti to Him. Tears flowed from everyone. Guruji shared a few anecdotes about Amma; it is no coincidence that Amma left the body on Yama Dwitiya and the Vaikuntha Samaradhana fell on Vaikuntha Chaturdashi day (the day when Godliness wakes up.)

Then He flew back to Delhi where He addressed a mind-boggling satsang for thousands. Then on to Indore, where huge cutouts and welcome arches greeted Guruji. The indoor stadium was packed to its capacity of 20,000. The following day saw over 40,000 people spellbound in meditation at the open-air stadium. This was telecast live on local TV. Guruji has devised a new way of giving darshan - all the 40000 were satisfied - guess how!

Jai Guru Dev

 

