

Weekly Knowledge #228	Rishikesh
18 Nov 1999	India
Death and Spirituality

Death brings you in touch with the reality of life.

Death creates a vacuum, a void.

Void is the fertile ground for the spirit to manifest.

All talents, invention, creativity springs forth from the void, and creation has a tendency to return to the void.

Bharat says, "All the problems come when you avoid the void." (Laughter)

All the places of worship in all religions are connected with places of burial/cremation, as the awareness of death alone can bring dispassion and make you well grounded in knowledge.

According to the Indian mythology, the abode of Shiva is in Mount Kailasa as well as in Smashana (the cremation ground).

Kailasa means "where there is only celebration", and Smashana is where there is only void.

Thus the Divinity dwells in the void as well as in celebration.

And in you there is void, in you there is celebration.

 

NEWS FLASH

Art Excel children avoided sweets, colas and fireworks this Diwali festival and saved the money to sponsor kids for the tribal school.

In the Rishikesh Advanced course hall there is no void, but only celebration!

Profound knowledge and immense love are radiating from Guruji.

Memorial satsang for Amma has been scheduled for 21st November.

In a devotee's house in Bhubaneshwar, Orissa, Guruji's photograph turned red just before the cyclone and returned to normalcy after the cyclone was over. Some devotees from Orissa actually made it to Rishikesh despite the catastrophic conditions in the state. One lady shared that she was in a meeting with about 50 people, when she felt that Guruji was sending her a message. Closing her eyes, she prayed to Guruji and then immediately advised everyone to evacuate the city. Later it was discovered that the entire area, including that building, was submerged in the deluge. She thanked Guruji with tears of gratitude for saving their lives.

Our volunteers are already engaged in seva and relief work in Orissa.

Jai Guru Dev

 

