

Weekly Knowledge #250	Bangalore Ashram
26 Apr 2000	India
A DESIRE KILLS JOY

AND ALL DESIRES AIM FOR JOY@

This couplet needs to be pondered over and over; for a whole lifetime is not sufficient enough to digest this knowledge.

Whenever happiness has disappeared from your life, look deeper and you will see it is because of the desire. And all that we desire is happiness!

No person, animal or creature desiring unhappiness is ever born, never has it happened before and never will it happen in the future.

When your small mind gets tired of running here and there, of wandering everywhere, it reaches a conclusion, "My desires have killed my happiness".

Thus a person who has conquered his desires in called "mahavira".

NEWS FLASH

Guruji had a satsang in Wayanad with over 12,000 people. Later He gave an address in the Catholic Church on Easter Sunday.

On His way back to Bangalore, Guruji addressed a congregation organized by the Muslim League in Sultan Batheri.

Now Guruji is flying to Delhi where He will address the Confederation of Indian Industry on April 27th.

Jai Guru Dev

 

SPEICAL NOTES:

May 13 is Guruji's Birthday. Be sure to keep Him in your heart throughout the day and especially when you meditate.

In past years we have meditated at the time of dawn in India on May 13 to celebrate and welcome this special day.

Think of how He has opened your heart and see if you can help to do the same for those around you on this day.

 

U.S. TEACHER's ANNOUNCMENT:

To all U.S. teachers and teachers-in-training, TTC 1 and 2 graduates: Please

make sure that you are currently registered with Chris Kapilla and receiving

the AOL Teacher's email. The AOL Teacher's list is the major form of

communication linking all the U.S. teachers, and the best way to stay

up-to-date with the latest information for teachers. If you have not

received any mail marked "[AOL Teachers]" in the last week, please update

Chris (ckapilla@interserver.com) with your current email address. Remember

to notify Chris if your email address should change in the future.

