

Weekly Knowledge #248	Dharanshala, Himachal
06 Apr 2000	India
HOW DOES A DESIRE ARISE?

1. A desire arises with the memory of a pleasant experience and past impressions.

2. A desire might arise through listening.

3. A desire can be triggered through the association of certain people and a place.

4. Someone else's need or desire may manifest in you as your own desire, e.g. when someone is hungry, you get a desire to feed them or someone wants to talk to you and you get a desire to talk to them.

5. The destiny or a happening in which you have a part to play may trigger a desire of which you have no idea. For example, a gentleman in Quebec, Canada kept making roads and working on a farm for 30 years, not knowing for what -- for it was destined to become our Canadian Ashram.

NEWS FLASH

After a brief halt in Delhi, Guruji arrived in Dharamshala as a state guest of the Government of Himachal Pradesh. A picturesque place with temples, snow-clad mountains and mango trees!! His Holiness The Dalai Lama warmly received Gurudev at his residence and had an hour long meeting. Later he met all the 30 Art of Living teachers and devotees and lauded their contribution to society. It was a treat to be in that atmosphere of love, laughter and total sense of belongingness.

The second Youth Training Program has begun in Rishikesh with 240 participants.

Of the planned 3000 villages, work is in good progress in 1200 villages.

Today is the Hindu New Year 5101 (52nd Century). Happy New Year to you all.

Jai Guru Dev

TTC ANNOUNCEMENT

TTC 1 and TTC 2 will be held in Canada, June 17-30.

TTC 1 and TTC 2 will be held in Lake Tahoe, July 14-29.

Please note that TTC 1 is now a 2-week course just like TTC 2. If you are

making travel plans, plan to leave on the last day of your course, not

before. Coming late to a course, or leaving before the end, is not

permitted.

For information on how to qualify for Teacher's Training, instructions on

how to apply, and a TTC Application Form, go to the the Website,

www.artofliving.org, and click on Application Forms.

Chuck Foster is the TTC contact. If you have general questions, please

address them to Chuck at cfos@mediaone.net, 978-922-2790.

Jai Gurudev ! Janael McQueen, TTC Coordinator

