

Weekly Knowledge #257	Bad Antogast
15 Jun 2000	Germany
TRUTH

Truth is that which does not change. Examine your life and identify all that changes as not truth. With this outlook, you will find that you are surrounded by only untruth.

When you identify that which appears to you as untruth, then you will become free from it. When you don't identify the untruth, you cannot become free from it. Your own experiences in life make you identify your own untruth. As you mature in life, you find everything is untruth - events, situations, people, emotions, thoughts, opinions, concepts, your body - everything is untruth. It is only then the satsang (company of truth) in the real sense happens.

For example, a mother cannot see the child as untruth until the child becomes an adult. For a baby sweet is not untruth, and for a teenager sex is not untruth.

Question: Is Knowledge also untruth?

Sri Sri: Yes, if it is words, it is untruth. But as existence it is truth. Love as an emotion is not truth, as existence it is truth.



NEWS FLASH

After an enchanting satsang on a boat in Paris, Guruji has arrived on a brief and busy stay at Bad Antogast. The Art of Living Shimla has undertaken a "Clean Shimla" and a polyethylene bag-free city project.



Jai Guru Dev



This is just a reminder that you still have time to register your children for the ART Excel Sierra Camp and register yourself for ART Excel teacher training this summer at Lake Tahoe. Teacher training will be held during the first week only (July 8-16).

The ART Excel Sierra Camp is going to be a blast this year! We have some great activities planned! Some of these are hiking (including map reading and survival skills), sailing, canoeing, bike riding, scavenger hunts, bodywork and a possible overnight campout. Participants will explore the depth of the knowledge and grace through fun and exciting activities.

Please contact Rachel Losey if you have questions about ART Excel, or ART Excel TTC at artexcel@yahoo.com

See you there!

Jai Guru Dev !

