

Weekly Knowledge #268	New York
29 Aug 2000	USA
DON'T MAKE A MISTAKE BY POINTING OUT MISTAKES!

A lady came to Guruji and said that her husband lied to her. She was very upset. Guruji asked "Why does your husband lie to you? Because he loves you, and is afraid to lose your love or hurt you. If he did not love you, he wouldn't lie to you!"

Do not tell a person a mistake he knows. What's the use of pointing out a mistake that he knows he has committed? By doing this, you will only make them feel more guilty, defensive or resentful and this will only create more distance.

You should only point out the mistake of a person who does not know, but who wants to

know. Do not point out the mistake of a person who knows but doesn't want you to know. Often people know the mistakes that they have committed, but they do not want you to tell them.

Think of the usefulness of your comments. Before pointing out the mistake of a person, see whether your comments in any way will help to improve the situation, foster love or bring harmony. A magnanimous person would not pick on the mistakes of others and make them feel guilty. However, they would correct them with compassion and care, not through words but through attitudes.

NEWS FLASH

Washington DC had big Satsangs and a lovely boat ride with Guruji. The DC Mayor's office honored Guruji by proclaiming that henceforth August 26th would be celebrated as His Holiness Sri Sri Ravi Shankar Day. Senator Paul Strauss presented this Honor to Guruji at the Elegant Ball Room of the Hilton Capitol in the presence of 1500 people.

In the United Nations in New York Guruj's speech was by far the best (obviously!), and He was given a standing ovation. Among other wonderful things, He talked about how Spirituality was the banana fruit and Religion was the banana peel. At the end of the talk, people were asking each other are you the banana, or are you the peel - one person was heard commenting, "I am the monkey, I get both the banana and the peel!"

Jai Guru Dev

 

