

Weekly Knowledge #279	New Delhi
15 Nov 2000	India
NIMIT  -  INSTRUMENT OF THE DIVINE

When you are neither clear nor confused, only then can you be a perfect instrument of the Divine! How would an instrument know what is going to be, and when? How can an instrument be confused, and how can an instrument be clear!

This state is called Nimit - just being an instrument of the Divine. Being very clear means not opening to new possibilities and can lead to limitations. Unlimited possibilities are open to one who is not clear and not confused.

Your mind swings from clarity to confusion and confusion to clarity but the state in which there is no doership nor inertia is the most creative and progressive state.

Sharmila: Will this not lead to lethargy?

Sri Sri: No. A sharp instrument does its job perfectly, effortlessly.

Sharmila: What about focus?

Sri Sri: Focus is natural to a dynamic consciousness.

Confusion arises when new information flows in and clarity is lost. Then confusion again seeks clarity. Clarity constricts the possibility of new information. A confused consciousness seeks clarity and every confusion is breaking away from clarity.

If there is only confusion, there is frustration. If there is only clarity, there is rigidity.

After giving contradictory knowledge, Krishna tells Arjuna, "Just be Nimit!" And to be an instrument, the prerequisite is to be madly in love! That's why in love there is neither confusion nor clarity; or there is both - confusion and clarity!

Nazreen: Is truth more important than love?

Sri Sri: I'm confused! Is it clear? (laughter)

NEWS FLASH Allahabad, the city of the Kumbhmela, had thousands blissed out at it's first Satsang with the Master. Under the full moon, the meditation at the Sangam (confluence of the main rivers), took the rowboats full of devotees beyond time - an amazingly mystical experience! High Court judges had the privilege of a meeting with the Master. Enthusiastic villagers greeted Guruji when He visited the 5H model villages.

Delhi bustled with activity -So many seva projects, so many meetings! Guruji also gave the key note address at a UN programme on Promoting Tolerance among Religious Leaders.

The performance of our school at Bangalore has startled educationists-sixteen prizes and seven first prizes! An amazing record from a rural school of first generation literates competing against established institutions in the state.

Jai Guru Dev

