

Weekly Knowledge #285	Bad Antogast
28 Dec 2000	Germany
TO SAY SORRY IS A GOOD MISTAKE?

Often, in establishing your righteousness, you are insensitive to othersÔ feelings. When someone is hurt, arguing with them and establishing your righteousness will be in vain. By saying a simple "Sorry", you can uplift the other and take away the bitterness. In many situations saying "Sorry" is better than establishing your righteousness. It can avert much unpleasantness.

This one word of five letters, when said sincerely can remove anger, guilt, hatred and distance.

Many people feel pride in hearing "Sorry" from others. This boosts their ego. But when you say "Sorry" to a wise man, it evokes compassion at your ignorance. However, when you say "Sorry" to your Guru, He will get angry and say, "Go! Listen to Ashtavakra!" (Laughter) For your saying "Sorry" indicates doership. You feel that YOU have MADE a mistake.

A mistake is part of an unconscious mind. An unconscious mind cannot do right. A conscious mind can do no wrong. The mind which makes the mistake and the mind which realizes the mistake - saying "Sorry" - are entirely different, arenÒ´ they? The mind which says "Sorry" cannot be an unconscious mind. Therefore, saying "Sorry" sincerely is a BIG MISTAKE!!!

Did you get it or are you confused? If you didn't get it, don't feel sorry orÅ¹ou can feel sorry!! (Laughter)

How strange - truth is paradoxical!

NEWS FLASH

Guruji was the chief guest at the 86th birthday celebration of Swami Satchidananda (of Lotus temple, Virginia) in Coimbatore. This was followed by a satsang. He also inaugurated the K.G. Eye Hospital and addressed the doctors and IT professionals.

The German Ashram was all set to welcome the Master for the Christmas Advanced Course. On looking at the beautifully decorated Christmas tree, Guruji reminded everybody to be like a Christmas tree, evergreen and full of gifts. The Advanced Course at the German Ashram ended with full hearts, warm smiles and cold snow.

On to Canada for the New Year.

Jai Guru Dev

