

Weekly Knowledge #290	Enroute to Zurich Airport from Davos
31 Jan 2001	Switzerland
THE OTHER SIDE OF FRIENDLINESS

Secretaries, police, judges, accountants and people in key positions should not be friendly!

The main disadvantages of being friendly are:

1. You come under obligation

2. You lose your freedom

3. You can't have a free and fair perception. Your thoughts and actions may not be impartial

4. Your focus, commitment, creativity and above all your time will be wasted

5  You will pick up bad habits and negative moods easily

It takes a lot of wisdom to be free from the burden of obligation and not be influenced by your friends' opinions and feelings.

In many occasions, it is better to be unfriendly than be friendly. Being unfriendly does not mean being aggressive and inimical. The best secretaries, personal assistants, security personnel, and judges have to be unfriendly.

Those who are aloof and indifferent get centered more quickly than those who are too friendly. A certain degree of aloofness in every relationship will strengthen your personality and connect you to your source.

Vinod Sethi: It's very easy to be very aloof or very friendly. But to be friendly and aloof is a Sadhana.

Harish: Be an unfriendly friend!!

NEWS FLASH:

From the Kumbh Mela, where He was one with even the poorest of the poor, Sri Sri descended on the beautiful Alpine ski resort of Davos, where the richest of the rich had gathered to participate in the World Economic Forum. Sri Sri was invited to the World Economic Forum to participate in a dialogue with other spiritual and religious leaders from the Vatican, Israel, Egypt, Bosnia, South Africa, France and UK.

It was a rare opportunity for the extremely busy créme de la créme of Global business to interact with an even busier Guru!!

Sri Sri was the Guest of Honor at a reception hosted in his honor by a leading media magnate of Europe. In his welcoming speech, the host felicitated Sri Sri and praised his beautiful energy. Other dignitaries who attended the reception included Shimon Peres  ex-prime minister of Israel, Peter Gabriel - pop singer, Reinhold Messner - mountaineer, Michael Dell - CEO Dell Computers, members of the  European Royalty and CEOs of Fortune 50 companies.  In the jam-packed hall, Sri Sri was the center of attraction, as all the guests lined up to greet him personally. Several guests were heard commenting that they could feel Sri Sri's energy in every corner of the room!

In the concluding session of the meeting, Sri Sri addressed the conference and said, "Globalization was pioneered by religious and spiritual leaders long ago. Whether you like it or not, you all are our followers!"

In India, hundreds of Art of Living volunteers are busily engaged in the relief efforts in the state of Gujarat. Within hours of the earthquake, our volunteers provided shelter and food to 1500 people. Food, clothing, water and funds are being arranged by our satsang groups.

