

Weekly Knowledge #299	Bali
05 Apr 2001	Indonesia
COMMITMENT AND CONVENIENCE

A commitment can only be felt when it oversteps convenience. That which is convenient, you do not call commitment. If you just go on your convenience, your commitment falls apart causing more inconvenience! If you keep dropping your commitment because it is inconvenient, can you be comfortable? Often, what is convenient does not bring comfort, but gives an illusion of comfort. Also if you are too stuck in commitment, and it is too inconvenient too often, you will be unable to fulfill your commitment and it will only generate frustration. Wisdom is to strike a balance between convenience and commitment because both bring comfort to the body, mind and spirit.

A seeker of knowledge should forget about convenience, so should soldiers, rulers, students, seekers of wealth and all essential service providers. Those who want to be creative and adventurous transcend convenience. Those who are ambitious and have a passion for a goal do not care for convenience. To the wise their commitment is their comfort. Whenever their commitment is shaken, their comfort is also shaken. To the lazy, commitment is torture though it is the best remedy.

Commitment will always bring comfort in the long run.

Question: Are there any commitments that can be given up?

Answer: Yes.

Sometimes when you are committed without a vision, you feel stifled when your vision expands. Such commitments made with shortsightedness can be given up.
A smaller less important commitment can be given up for a greater commitment.
Commitment to the means can be given up for the sake of the commitment to the goals.
When your commitment brings misery to many in the long run it can be given up.
Knowledge splash!

Guruji held up a pistachio nut and asked every one. "What is this?" Everybody said, "Pistachio." Guruji held up a pistachio nut without the shell and asked every one, "What is this?" Everybody said, "Pistachio." Guruji then held up the shell and asked everyone, "What is this?" Every body said, "Shell."

Guruji said, "As the nut with or without the shell is pistachio, similarly spirit with or without the body is God. But just as the shell without the nut is not pistachio, the body without spirit is not God. Spirit is certainly God because it is present everywhere. The body is certainly not God because it cannot be present everywhere."

When someone asks you, "Are you God?" Who is the question addressed to? As it is only the spirit that answers, you have no choice but to say, "Yes!" There was a blissful glee on everyoneҳ faces.

God is within the body and God embodies the whole universe. Those who have eyes will see. (When asked, "Are you God?"- This is the best answer.)

Jai Guru Dev

