

Weekly Knowledge #291	Bangalore Ashram
08 Feb 2001	India
LONGING ITSELF IS DIVINE

 

Longing itself is Divine.

Longing for worldly things makes you inert.

Longing for Infinity fills you with life.

 

When longing dies, inertia sets in. But longing also brings along a sense of pain. To avoid the pain, you try to push away the longing. The skill is to bear the pain of longing and move on. Don't try to find a shortcut to overcome longing. Don't make the longing short - that's why it's called loooonging. (Laughter)

 

True longing in itself brings up spurts of bliss. That's why in ancient days longing was kept alive by singing and listening to kathas (stories).

 

When longing transcends relationships, judgments, jealousy and all other negative feelings drop off. It is only with wisdom and self-knowledge that you can transcend relationships. People often think wisdom is devoid of longing - No! Such wisdom is dry. The longing that comes in true wisdom makes life juicier. Divine is certainly juicy!

 

Longing gives you the power to bless. Bless the entire creation. For, the longing in you is God.

 

 

NEWS FLASH

Guruji's whirlwind tour of Kerala state (India) began with hundreds of thousands celebrating at the Trivandrum satsang; At Punaloor, over 50,000 people braved heavy rains for a 'standing satsang' which saw Guruji also standing throughout. Hundreds of thousands rejoiced at Cherokolpuzha and Kottayam satsangs too.

 

Guruji met with His Holiness Basilius Marthoma Matthew, the second Catholic baba, and a descendant of St. Thomas. Guruji was the chief guest at a meeting attended by Mr. George Fernandes, Defence Minister of India, and inaugurated Homes for the Aged at Suttur, near Mysore.

 

On to Southern Kumbh Mela where He graced hundreds of thousands taking the holy dip at a confluence of rivers!

 

The intense longing of TTC-2 graduates and Ashramites pulled our precious Guruji by helicopter from the Southern Kumbh Mela to reach the Ashram just in time for a juicy satsang.

Jai Guru Dev

