

Weekly Knowledge #306	Bangalore Ashram
24 May 2001	India
Doing Trivial Things

What is that you can do for eternity? Definitely not anything that is big or great because it needs effort and effort tires you. So, it is a temporary state. If you can think of one thing that is way below your capacity to do and agree to do it for eternity, that becomes Pooja.

The readiness to consciously do trivial things for eternity unites you with eternity. This is an antidote to ego. Ego is always ambitious and wants to do the toughest job like climbing Mount Everest etc. Whereas in a simple act like watching a butterfly, watering the garden, watching the birds or the sky, can bring deep relaxation, and relaxation connects you with your source. Not that you do trivial things all your life, but consciously agreeing to do the trivial actions for eternity, opens a new dimension and brings in immense peace and restfulness.

To find rest in activity, choose an activity that is far below your capacity and agree to do it until eternity. Doing a job far below your capacity and being satisfied with it will make it possible to do a job much beyond your capacity.

Know that all actions are born out of infinity and that which is born out of infinity can take you to infinity.

News Flash:

A traditional South Indian welcome with Poorna Kumbha, garland and the Vaadyam greeted Guruji when He got off at the Kodai Road station on the way to the South Zone Teacher’s Meet at picturesque Kodaikanal. Devotees from the nearby areas thronged the platform, and the Satsang and celebration lasted for about half an hour. The entourage then proceeded to "The Nest" at Kodaikanal which was exclusively booked for The Art of Living group for the Meet.

Nearly 160 teachers took part in this meet and had the privilege of having Guruji exclusively to themselves for 3 days! They spent quality time with Guruji and uplifting Knowledge sessions with the Master, interactive discussions between the teachers kept the whole proceedings lively.

Guruji with a few teachers proceeded to Trichy where a Satsang had been arranged.

Jai Guru Dev

