

Weekly Knowledge #305	European Ashram
16 May 2001	Germany
Reason and Faith

Reason is reeling in the known. Faith is moving in the unknown.
Reason is repetition. Faith is exploration.
Reason is routine. Faith is adventure.

They are completely opposite, yet an integral part of life.

Not having faith itself is misery; faith gives instant comfort. While reasoning keeps you sane and grounded, no miracle can happen without faith. Faith takes you beyond limitations. In faith you can transcend the laws of nature but it needs to be pure. Faith is beyond reason, yet you need to have faith in your own reasoning! (A sentence to be pondered on.) Faith and reason cannot exist without each other. Every reason is based on some faith. Whenever reason or faith breaks, confusion and chaos prevails which is often a step for growth.

There are two types of faith. Faith out of fear, greed and insecurity; and faith born out of love like the faith between the mother and the child, the Master and disciple. Whereas the faith out of love cannot be broken, faith out of fear and greed is shaky.

An atheist bases himself on reason, and a believer on faith. A believer uses God as an insurance policy! He thinks he is special. In the eyes of God there is no "mine" and "others"; all are the same. An atheist rationalizes to keep his eyes shut to reality. Death shakes them both! When someone close dies, an atheist eyes are opened, and a believerҳ faith cracks. Only a Yogi - a wise one - remains unshaken. For that person has transcended both reason and faith.

You need a balance between faith and reason.

NEWS FLASH

On Guruji's birthday, in a grand sea of memorial services throughout the globe, the world paid moving tributes to Guruj's most beloved devotes, Nityanand and Nandita. Nityanand's parents cut the cake in Delhi, and thousands gathered in Satsang, soaked in knowledge, dancing and celebrating life as well as death.

The Canadian Ashram teacher refresher course left the teachers dumbfounded.

Jai Guru Dev

`
