

Weekly Knowledge #309	Bad Antogast
14 Jun 2001	Germany
Five Types of Restlessness

There are five types of restlessness.

The first type of restlessness is due to the place you are in. When you move away from that place, the street or the house, you immediately feel better. Chanting, singing, children playing and laughing can change this atmospheric restlessness. If you chant and sing, the vibration in the place changes.

The second type of restlessness is in the body. Eating the wrong food or vata aggravating food, eating at odd times, not exercising, and overworking can all cause a physical restlessness. The remedy for this is exercise, moderation in work habits and going on a vegetable or juice diet for one or two days.

The third type of restlessness is mental restlessness. It is caused by ambition, strong thoughts, likes or dislikes. Knowledge alone can cure this restlessness. Seeing life from a broader perspective, knowledge about the Self and the impermanence of everything. If you achieve everything, so what? After your achievement, you will die. Knowledge of your death or life, confidence in the Self, in the Divine, can all calm down the mental restlessness.

Then there is emotional restlessness. Any amount of knowledge does not help here. Only Kriya helps! All that emotional restlessness vanishes. Also the presence of the Guru, a wise person, or a saint will help to calm your emotional restlessness.

The fifth type of restlessness is rare. It is the restlessness of the soul. When everything feels empty and meaningless, know you are very fortunate. That longing and restlessness is the restlessness of the soul. Do not try to get rid of it. Embrace it! Welcome it! Usually to get rid of it people do all sorts of things - they change places, jobs or partners, do this, do that. It seems to help for some time, but it does not last.

This restlessness of the soul alone can bring authentic prayer in you. It brings perfection, Siddhis and miracles in life. It is so precious to get that inner most longing for the Divine. Satsang, the presence of the enlightened one, soothes the restlessness of the soul.

News Flash: After a memorial satsang in the biggest cathedral in Berlin, Guruji moved on to London. In Westminster Abbey, and the town hall of Brent Town, satsang exploded with enthusiastic devotees. Guruji inaugurated our new center in London. Excellent teamwork marked Guruji’s much waited London tour. On the 13th he arrived in Strasbourg to deliver a talk at the European Parliament. It was presided by Reinholt Messner, the famous mountaineer and Peter von Kohl, the president of the organization of journalists of the European Parliament. Guruji is back in the German Ashram, and on Friday he will address the biggest ever gathering of Christians in Germany.

 

Jai Guru Dev

