

Weekly Knowledge #302	Sao Paulo,Brasil
25 Apr 2001	Brazil
THE DANGERS OF BELONGINGNESS AND ADVANTAGES OF OBLIGATIONS

Belongingness can bring about a host of negative emotions. Like demand, jealousy, unawareness and lack of gratitude. Just look into your own life, you feel more grateful to strangers than the people you feel "belong" to you. Belongingness reduces gratefulness, awareness, and gives rise to demands which destroys love. This is the biggest problem in relationships. People are nice to strangers and give more attention to them. With a sense of belongingness comes carefreeness and lack of attention.

Look belongingness can make you insensitive, dull, and take away the charm in life!

Anyway, who belongs to whom in this world? Here you are a stranger and everyone is a stranger to you!

Blessed are those who feel themselves as a stranger!

You feel more obligation to a stranger than the person you feel belongs to you. Obligation is very good to keep a check on your ego. It makes you humble. There is no greater antidote to ego than humility. Being humble is the beginning of all virtues.

People have such resistance for obligations. They do not realize that they are always under obligations, whether giving or taking! Dull people think that one is obliged only when one takes. The wise knows that even when one is giving one is under obligations, as the person has accepted what one gives. So whether you give or take you are under obligations. And if someone does not give or take, you are still under obligation! For they are freeing you from visible obligations!!

That is to say, you are obliged to all those who do not make you obliged!!! A Got it?

Life (you) renews itself everytime by becoming a stranger in this old and familiar world.

You are simply loaded with obligations and you are a total stranger in this world every moment!

How does it feel (Laughter!)

 

NEWS FLASH

Guruji was received by the Vice-President, Speaker of the parliament and other parliamentarians of Suriname. Later the Army, Navy, Air-forceAir force, Prison and Police chiefs met with Guruji, they where greatly impressed by The Art of Living programs and requested for continuos programs.

Guruji was received at the chamber of the Vice-Governor of Bahia, BrasilBrazil. As Guruji entered, a great sense of calmness dawned on everyone. The Vice-President shared that there was a conflict going on over border issues, and suddenly within moments of Guruji arrival in the building, it all got resolved.

At the Recife Airport, Guruji played many tricks on all those who were accompanying him, so everyone said they will not listen to him anymore.

 

Jai Guru Dev

