

Weekly Knowledge #304	Montreal Ashram
10 May 2000	Canada
Life is a Dream, a Burden or a Joke

(Continued from last week's Knowledge sheet)

Often when you are happy you feel life is a dream because you do not believe in the reality of it.  When there is misery you feel life as a burden.  And we take trivial things very seriously.  But one who has really gone through the pleasure realizes that pleasure is a burden.  And if you have undergone misery thoroughly you will realize that life is a dream.  In every miserable condition you have been walked or carried through and you realize life is a dream.  When you see life is dream a burden or a joke only then can you be centered.

And when you have really gone through misery you have really seen life as a dream.  And in between the pain and pleasure life is all a joke.

Life is very uncertain.  Before it takes you away, realize it is a dream, a burden or a joke. 

Someone asked:  What about life is a joke? 

Answer:  A joke you do not question.  If you question a joke, it is no longer a joke.  Do not question a burden either.  It is a waste of time to question life and its events. 

The burden makes you go deep.  It gets you to the core of yourself. 

Realization of a dream wakes you up.  And seeing life as a joke makes you light.

The only certainty is that life is a dream, a burden or a joke and only when you realize this can you be centered.

NEWS FLASH

Two of our dearest devotees, Nandita Judge and Nityanand Trehan who lived Knowledge so deeply like Jenaka returned back to the source this week.  They were seva warriors.  They had filled the Art of Living family with love and laughter and in their departure they have deepened our dispassion and strengthened our commitment.  This year the 13th of May will be a worldwide celebration and Satsang honoring Nityanand and Nandita.

Jai Guru Dev

SPEICAL NOTES:

May 13 is Guruji's Birthday. Along with Nityanand and Nandita, be sure to keep him in your heart throughout the day and especially when you meditate.

In past years we have meditated at the time of dawn in India on May 13 to celebrate and welcome this special day. Since are dear Guru is in Canada this year, we should meditate at the time of dawn in eastern Canada.

Think of how he has opened your heart and see if you can help to do the same for those around you on this day.

 

Denise Richardson & Tom Duffy gave a dynamic presentation about Prison SMART Street Lights and Art of Living ART Excel Program, to the Los Angeles Association of School Psychologist conference in LA. A presentation was projected onto a large screen backed up buy an 8-minute video on ART Excel. Art of Living devotees from the L.A. Satsang came and assisted in the registration.

