

Weekly Knowledge #334	Rishikesh
07 Dec 2001	India
Dreaming the Impossible

Question: Guruji, how can we control daydreams?

Sri Sri: Dream in the night! (laughter)

What is daydreaming? You have a desire but you do not have the faith that you can achieve your desire - that is what you call daydreaming.

You can control daydreaming by having a strong goal and believing in it.

Like the scientist who wanted to go to the moon and kept dreaming about it - for him it was the goal of his life but for others it was daydreaming.

Either you drop that it will not happen or you believe!

When you do not know yourself, your potentiality, you have no faith and confidence in your dream.

Once you have faith and confidence in your dream, it is no longer a daydream!

News Flash:

The impossible was made possible at the YTP [Youth Training Program] Meet in Rishikesh:

Conducting Navchetna Shivirs, satsangs, creating awareness through cleanliness and tree-plantation drives our Yuvacharyas are busy transforming naxalite-hit villages into "model-villages". Many terrorists have also been transformed. Within a year 3,000 villages in India have been touched while the number of Yuvacharyas has gone up to 500. The confidence and commitment of the Yuvacharyas held everyone spellbound as they recounted success tales of alcohol-free, tobacco-free villages, and where love and belongingness are being nurtured. Immense numbers of legal cases have been withdrawn from courts, with warring factions agreeing to peaceful settlements, especially those involving "under-privileged" classes. Homes are being given to the needy, Sri Sri Ravishankar Vidya Mandirs opened where schools are not available. Tulsi, neem, genda, and other trees are being planted around homes and throughout villages. Two hundred and twenty four self-help groups have been formed while villagers are encouraged to practice savings. Villagers are celebrating festivals as one big family and human values are increasingly being nurtured.

Over a thousand participants are at the Advanced Course at Rishikesh where they are showered with blessings by a distinguished panel of Swamis at the Samapan Samaroh  (closing ceremony). They also lauded Gurudev’s worldwide service projects.

Jai Guru Dev

