

Weekly Knowledge #344	Bangalore Ashram
15 Feb 2002	India
Humor and Humiliation

Humor is the buffer that saves you from humiliation. If you have a good sense of humor you can never be humiliated. And if you refuse to be humiliated you become invincible. Humor brings everyone together, while humiliation tears them apart. In a society torn with humiliation and insult, humor is like a breath of fresh air. A good sense of humor relieves you from fear and anxiety.

Humor should be coupled with care and concern. Mere humor without care and concern or appropriate action often irritates those who come to you with serious problems.

Humor can keep the spirit high, yet if overdone it leaves a bad taste.
Humor without wisdom is shallow.
Humor with wisdom creates an atmosphere of celebration.
Humor without sensitivity is satire - it comes back to you with more problems.

The wise use humor to bring wisdom and to lighten every situation.
The intelligent use humor as a shield against humiliation.
The cruel use humor as a sword to insult others.
The irresponsible use humor to escape from responsibility.
And fools take humor too seriously!
To make an effort to be humorous is nonsensical.

Question: How does one cultivate a sense of humor?

Sri Sri:

Humor is not just words, it is the lightness of your Being. You do not have to read and repeat jokes -- just being cordial and light-hearted brings out authentic humor.
Taking life itself not too seriously (because you will never come out of it alive!) (Laughter)
Having a sense of belongingness with everybody, including those who are not friendly
Practicing yoga and meditation
Having unshakable faith in the Divine, and in the laws of karma
Being in the company of those who live in knowledge and are humorous
A willingness to be a clown
News Flash: On Valentine's Day, jubilant TTC1, ecstatic International Advanced Course and intrepid TTC2 participants (more than 700 in all) celebrated with a colorful multi-lingual cultural program which highlighted Guruji's universal message of love. After an intensive course with nearly eight days of silence and deep meditation which had everyone in bliss, the Advanced Course participants had a surprise picnic with Guruji, visiting an ancient Shiva temple which is over 5,000 years old! The temple authorities were moved as they recollected the prophecies of two saints which were fulfilled by Guruji's visit.

Jai Guru Dev

