

Weekly Knowledge #35	Miami Beach, Florida
08 Feb 1996	USA
INDEBTEDNESS OR ABUNDANCE

 Question: God is all abundant, all full and we are connected to God. Then why are we in debt, except for some? Why do they have, and we don't have?

 Guruji: Is it only money? You have abundance, yet at the same time, you are indebted. So how can both be true? How can you be indebted and at the same time have abundance?

 Somebody says: An abundance of indebtedness!

 Guruji: When you say you are indebted, that means you have received. Otherwise how can you be indebted? So be thankful for being indebted, because you have received. Those who have received should feel indebted. If you don't feel indebted, you cannot have abundance. So the more indebted you feel, the more abundance you have.

 Question: When the disciples met Jesus, they were not very successful, did not catch very many fish. When they met Jesus, he told them exactly where to fish and that's when they got lots of fish and then they decided to follow Jesus.

 (Laughter)

 Guruji: Feel indebted. Feel gratitude. Then abundance comes. As long as you are wanting for abundance you get indebted. Feel indebtedness and gratitude, then abundance comes.

 Abundance and indebtedness coexist. You think you are indebted, but you really are not. It is better to feel totally indebted, because every bit of what you have, doesn't belong to you, including your body. Then you are infinitely indebted for your body, for Knowledge, for things you have received, and for your own life. Then you bask in the abundance of the Creator.

 Someone says: I feel very indebted. Thank you!

 

 NEWS FLASH:

 Physicians of Apple Valley had organized memorable meetings and Satsangs. Guruji was on CNN News. Guruji was in the media and newspapers for several days before the much awaited event. Local TV stations were announcing the event every hour.

 From there -- unbelievable Satsangs in packed halls in Los Angeles. The drummers and Divya got everyone on their feet. The atmosphere was electrifying.

 Guruji went to the University of Northeast Missouri that had sponsored his visit. Students and Lloyd had organized 700 people to welcome Guruji.

 

Guruji, not only in spirit, but also physically, piloted a twin engine Cessna plane back to St. Louis, Missouri on his way to Fort Lauderdale, Florida. The church was filled with devotion and decorations. The way Guruji looked -- the Grace and Knowledge were so magical -- the scene is impossible to describe. The hurricane of Satva has moved on to Miami.

 

Jai Guru Dev

