

Weekly Knowledge #37	Oslo
21 Feb 1996	Norway
KNOWLEDGE AND FAITH

 In science you have knowledge first, and then faith follows.

In spirituality, faith comes first, and then Knowledge follows.

For example, the knowledge that pesticides and chemical fertilizers are good for plants came through science, and people had faith in it, and all over the world they were used. And then another knowledge came that they were not good and the faith shifted to organic farming. The same with antibiotics.

The knowledge brought faith, the knowledge changed, and then faith changed. The knowledge and faith of science is of "happening." In spirituality, faith is first and Knowledge comes later. Like Kriya, Yoga, and meditation -- first you have faith and then Knowledge follows. For example, if you do pranayama faithfully then you get the Knowledge of the prana; if your do your meditation faithfully, the Knowledge of consciousness follows. Even an illiterate, through faith, attains deep Knowledge.

Vinod: Human is the best composite material. (Laughter -- this is the NASA scientist mind.)

Punditji: Science considers even human as matter, and spirituality considers even earth as mother, even rivers and mountains as living beings.

Science regards life as matter and spirituality regards even matter as life.

NEWS FLASH:

Shivaratri was celebrated in London as well as in the German Ashram. Devotees had put their hearts and souls to make the place so beautiful. The puja and Satsang transported everyone to another plane. As usual, laughter filled the corridors of the new Ashram. The big hall was already too small to the surprise of everyone! Our own spring water replaced Pepsi and Coke!

Then on to Copenhagen -- the capital of Denmark. It was a media event: people from TV, radio, and the newspaper were queuing into the hotel. The TV crew followed to the public talks which were packed and very lively.

Then the giggling gang moved on to Norway, but had left some luggage behind in the hotel. The flight was conveniently delayed, which was very unusual for SAS. Lakshmi had called Guruji the night before. Guruji had said we will arrive at the airport at exactly 12:15. It kept Lakshmi wondering and confused because it was almost one hour later than the original arrival time. And they all arrived on the dot at 12:15!

Wait for the exciting news from Norway and Sweden next week.

Jai Guru Dev

 (Compiled by Shirley and Kiran)

