

Weekly Knowledge #40	Rishikesh
13 Mar 1996	India
FAITH AND LOVE

 God does not wish you to have more faith because the more faith you have, the more work for God. God will have to run behind you; then you start controlling Him. He is the servant of faithful servants and He does not want too many servants telling Him what He should be doing.

 Love is the highest strength, yet it makes you absolutely weak. So God/Enlightened One/Nature does not want you to have more faith or love. With too much faith and love, you make God weak.

 So, it is better for God that you have less faith. Things go on as they are. Why transform? Be happy.

 Meditation is seeing God in oneself.

Love is seeing God in the person next to you.

Knowledge is seeing God everywhere.

Expression of love is service.

Expression of joy is smile.

Expression of peace is meditation.

Expressing God is conscious action.

 

NEWS FLASH

Before Guruji arrived in Delhi, everything was meticulously planned and organized. When Guruji arrived, there was a spontaneous Satsang at the airport. Airport personnel and other passengers joined in. It was sparkling! The well-organized plans went haywire and the usual divine chaos followed. Everything was settled in a flash but the organizers were left holding the plans on paper!

There was an air of celebration at Saritha Vihar Satsang. The sweets and flowers made a carpet in the large hall that matched the fragrance of joy. At Karol Bagh, the next day, there was more than one reason for the authorities to raise their eyebrows -- stampede in the room, traffic jam on roads, and devotees forgetting their families in their eagerness to follow the "Gurumobile." Then on to Rishikesh and the teachers' refresher course.

Rishikesh. The lush green Himalayas all around -- in the front, the holy Ganges that roars, gurgles, and sometimes murmurs -- the sounds mingling with the chirping of the birds -- the call of the peacocks in the early morning -- the chiming of the temple bells at sunrise -- the chanting of Vedic hymns at all times. Dip in the cold waters -- everyone clad in shawls and sweaters on their way in -- and most reluctant to leave afterwards. Sitting with Guruji in the evening, watching the sunset. Electrifying Satsangs and discourses on Bhagwad Gita in Hindi by Guruji, transport everyone to a blissful, celestial experience. More about Rishikesh next week.

Jai Guru Dev

 

