

Weekly Knowledge #54	Somewhere in Beautiful British Columbia
19 Jun 1996	Canada
WHEN WE ARE JOYFUL

 When we are joyful, we don't look for perfection. If you are looking for perfection then you are not at the source of joy. Joy is the realization that there is no vacation from wisdom. The world appears imperfect on the surface but underneath, all is perfect. Perfection hides; imperfection shows off.

 The wise will not stay on the surface but will probe into the depth. Things are not blurred; your vision is blurred. Infinite actions prevail in the wholeness of consciousness. And yet the consciousness remains perfect, untouched. As Satsangees, realize this now and be at Home.

 Koan (riddle) of the week: You better straighten out and become we. We are always one and you could be two. Answer next week . . .

 NEWS FLASH from BBC (Beautiful British Columbia):

 In St. Louis a man diagnosed with a malignancy in his shoulder came to receive Guruji's blessings. The next day he came to Satsang and to the astonishment of the doctors, the man had been healed even though the MRI had shown a tear and a growth on the shoulder cuff. As the man told his story and presented a dozen red roses to Guruji, tears of gratitude rolled down everyone's cheeks. There were many reported healing experiences in St. Louis and Chicago.

 The Chicago organizers said, "Here comes the Art of Living circus to town." (Laughter) There was an air of celebration as the devotees from the U.S. Midwest gathered with non-stop giggling and laughter. People were driving in circles, forgetting traffic rules, not sleeping, and laughing as Guruji (our sit-down comedian) amazed everyone.

 We rushed on to Portland. Dean says we have become Rushins instead of American, Indians, and Canadians. At The Old Church, there was not even standing space. The sight of Guruji put smiles on every face.

 In Vancouver, the Aboriginal People warmly hosted Guruji at the University of British Columbia. The sky, the sea, the snow-capped mountains, the tall trees and the waterfalls all beckoned for the Knowledge.

 Sudarshana left the room for five minutes and returned asking, "What did I miss?" Marcy said, "Enlightenment!" (Laughter)

Jai Guru Dev

