

Weekly Knowledge #59	Bad Antogast
24 Jul 1996	Germany
DOING VERSUS HAPPENING

Only one who is 100 percent in doing can recognize the happening.

The healthiest way to apply this knowledge is to see the whole past as happening and the present as doing. If you see the past as doing, then ego and regret come along. And when you see the present as happening, then laziness and unawareness set in. If you apply the doing for the future, it brings tension and worry. If you apply the happening for the future, it might bring some confidence and also lethargy.

Let the happening be for the past. Let the doing be for the present. And the future is a mix of both.

The wise will see the doing in happening and the happening in doing simultaneously. Are you confused now? (Laughter)

One who does a lot of work will never say he did a lot. When someone says he did a lot of work, that means he can do more. He has not done enough.

Work does not tire you as much as the doership does. All the talents you have are for others. If you have good voice, it is for others. If you are a good cook, it is for others. If you write a good book, it is for others. What do you do? You donҴ sit and read your own book! If you are a good carpenter, it is for others. So all of your talents are useful for others. If you are a good surgeon, it is for others. You cannot do your own surgery. This is interesting. If you are school teacher, it is for others. You cannot teach your own children; they donҴ listen to you anyway. So all your work and talents are for others.

 

If you donҴ make use of your talents, they will not be given to you again.

 

NEWS -- Metamorphosis:

The German Academy is transformed overnight. It has become more elastic than rubber in its ability to accommodate course participants. The enthusiasm of seva has gone beyond limits. Guruji has to walk around in the middle of the night telling people to go to bed.

The Ashram is radiating so much love that the postman kept polishing the letterbox outside the Ashram for a long time without knowing why.

Guru Purnima is moving into the German Academy.

 

Jai Guru Dev

