

Weekly Knowledge #75	Kuala Lumpur
14 Nov 1996	Malaysia
ANNIHILATE CONFLICT

When you are in a harmonious environment your mind picks up any excuse to be in conflict. So often small things are enough to create big turmoil. If you have a conflicting environment you tend to seek harmony ... Have you noticed this?

Ask yourself this question: Do you seek harmony in every situation or do you seek to widen the differences and prove your righteousness?

When your survival is at stake, you don't complain that nobody loves you. When you are safe and secure you start demanding attention. Many people create conflict in order to get attention.

The seed of negativity and the tendency for conflict in you can only be annihilated by Sadhana.

 

NEWS FLASH

In the Ashram some people wanted white bread to be served at breakfast. Some were opposed to this and it caused a big conflict (laughter) because they couldn't find any other reason to be in conflict. Just one phone call from Guruji set everyone in astonishment.

The diplomatic reception, the piles and piles of flower and the smiling crowd at the airport was a great part of the Taipei event. Guruji addressed a group of medical professionals in the afternoon and an interfaith conference attended by many religious leaders in the evening. An advanced course followed on the hilltop retreat center. The experiences of the people were great. One lady in her mid-thirties had been in a wheelchair and could not walk for several years. She started walking after she met Guruji on the previous advanced course. On the last day of the course, Sharmila and Guruji cooked for 20 volunteers who stayed back to clean up, and you know what? When dinner was served, 60 people showed up! All were fed with the food left over.

Amid tears and laughter the party moved

on to Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The honorable Minister for Works was present at the official launching of the Malaysian Art of Living Society. Several prominent leaders came to take blessings from Guruji. One of them asked, "What is the limit of want?" Guruji said, "Unhappiness." It was a colorful evening with Satsang and dinner. The lights of the local TV stations were so powerful that the circuit breakers switched off twice!

Jai Guru Dev

(Compiled by Jonathan)

