

Weekly Knowledge #78	Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala
05 Dec 1996	India
HOW TO DEAL WITH RUDE BEHAVIOR

What do you do when someone behaves very rudely to you?

1. Get upset

2. React rudely back

3. Get frustrated

4. Run-away from and avoid the person or the situation

5. Blame the person

6. Preach to the person

None of these will in any way strengthen you.

Then what are the options? See rude behavior in this light:

1. It indicates the intensity of their commitment

2. It indicates the amount of stress and insensitivity

3. It projects the up-bringing of the person

4. It indicates a behavioral pattern

5. It shows lack of knowledge

6. It shows lack of observation of one's own mind and its sensations

7. It shows you behavior to avoid

8. It is an opportunity for you to welcome and absorb the rudeness

9. It strengthens your mind

10. It unconditions the love that you are

The next time when someone is rude to you, make sure you don't get upset. Just give back a broad smile.

If you can digest the rudeness, nothing whatsoever can shake you.

NEWS FLASH

Guruji came from Delhi for an overnight stay at the Ashram and left the next morning to Kerala. Organizers in Delhi as well as in Cochin (Trivandrum and Trichur) had experienced very clearly the non-doership of the big event. Everything fell in its space at the right moment as always. Enthusiastic devotees in Cochin renovated their homes. After Cochin, Guruji rushed to the colorful Trichur (In Trichur as usual there was chaos and asana-snatch). Excellent team work and elaborate arrangements were appreciated by thousands who came to the Satsang. The Kerala-style decorated elephants with umbrellas and the ballkas dressed in traditional attire carrying lights and flowers were a spectacular welcome. Many people shared their amazing healing experiences. Then the whole troop moved to Trivandrum, the town of infinity. The king of Kerala received Guruji at the Senate Hall with a packed audience of 4000 people. Colorful umbrellas, elephants, the traditional horns and drums and the Vedic chanting filled the air. People were enraptured for a three and a half hour program. The next morning newspapers were filled with the news of the Art of Living Satsang.

Jai Guru Dev

(Compiled by Murali and Sreeranjini)

